
Thank you, General, and hello cadets. On behalf of our entire nation, let me say congratulations to the incredible West Point Class of 2020. Congratulations. Everyone have a good time, enjoy yourselves because we are here to celebrate your achievements, and great achievements they are. Let us also recognize your remarkable Superintendent, General Darryl Williams for his outstanding stewardship. General, thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Few words in the English language and few places in history have commanded as much awe and admiration as West Point. This premier military academy produces only the best of the best, the strongest of the strong, and the bravest of the brave. West Point is a universal symbol of American gallantry, loyalty, devotion, discipline, and great skill. There is no place on Earth I would rather be than right here with all of you. It’s a great honor.
Across this hallowed plain have passed many of the greatest and most fearsome soldiers that ever lived. They were heroes who drove thundering columns of Sherman tanks into the heart of a wicked empire. They were legends who unleashed the fury of American artillery upon our enemies on remote islands and distant shores. They were titans who strode through cannon blast and cavalry charge and stared down our foes through gray clouds of smoke and shrapnel. They were the Army Rangers who led the way up jagged cliffs, the airborne soldiers who rained down justice in the dark of night, the infantry whose very sight meant liberation was near, and the mighty forces who sent tyrants, terrorists, and sadistic monsters running scared through the gates of hell.
No evil force on Earth can match the noble power and righteous glory of the American warrior. I have no doubt that the young men and women before me today will add your names to this eternal chronicle of American heroes. You will go forth from this place adored by your countrymen, dreaded by your enemies, and respected by all throughout the world. Someday, generations of future West Point cadets will study your legacy. They will know your deeds, they will celebrate your triumphs, and they will proudly follow your example. To the 1,107 cadets who today become the newest officers in the most exceptional army ever to take the field of battle, I am here to offer America’s salute. Thank you for answering your nation’s call.
On this special occasion, we are delighted to be joined by Congressman Steve Womack, Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy, Assistant Secretary Casey Wardynski, and Army Chief of Staff General James McConville, an old grad from the class of 1981. Let’s also express our appreciation to General Curtis Buzzard, General Cindy Jebb, and all of the wonderful instructors, coaches, and faculty members who are continuing West Point’s two-century tradition of unrivaled excellence. To all of the parents, grandparents, and family members watching this ceremony from your beautiful home, even though you could not be here today, we know this day could never have happened without you. Your love and sacrifice have given America these phenomenal men and women. Cadets, please join me in sending your parents and families the heartfelt thanks that they so richly deserved. They’re all watching right now. Please. Thank you very much.
The depth and breadth of the United States military’s contributions to our society are an everlasting inspiration to us all. I want to take this opportunity to thank all members of America’s Armed Forces in every branch, active duty, National Guard, and reserve who stepped forward to help battle the invisible enemy, the new virus that came to our shores from a distant land called China. We will vanquish the virus, we will extinguish this plague. I also want to thank the men and women of our National Guard who respond with precision to so many recent challenges, from hurricanes and natural disasters, to ensuring peace, safety, and the constitutional rule of law on our streets. We thank every citizen who wears a uniform in selfless service to our nation.
The members of this class have come from every state in our union. You have come from the farms and the cities, from states big and small, and from every race, religion, color, and creed. But when you entered these grounds, you became part of one team, one family, proudly serving one great American nation. You became brothers and sisters pledging allegiance to the same timeless principles, joined together in a common mission to protect our country, to defend our people, and to carry on the traditions of freedom, equality, and liberty that so many gave their lives to secure. You exemplify the power of shared national purpose to transcend all differences and achieve true unity. Today, you graduate as one class, and you embody one noble creed, duty, honor, country. Every graduate on this field could have gone to virtually
Every graduate on this field could have gone to virtually any top rank university that you wanted, you chose to devote your life to the defense of America. You came to West Point, because you know the truth, America is the greatest country in human history. And the United States military is the greatest force for peace and justice the world has ever known. The survival of America and the endurance of civilization itself depends on the men and women, just like each of you, depends on people who love their country with all their heart and energy and soul.
It depends on citizens who build, sustain, nurture, and defend institutions like this one. That is how societies are made and how progress is advanced. What has historically made America unique, is the durability of its institutions against the passions and prejudices of the moment. When times are turbulent, when the road is rough, what matters most is that which is permanent, timeless, enduring, and eternal.
It was on this soil that American Patriots held the most vital fortress in our war for independence. It was this school that gave us the men and women who fought and won a bloody war to extinguish the evil of slavery within one lifetime of our founding. It was the graduates of West Point, towering figures like McArthur, Patton, Eisenhower, and Bradley who led America to victory over the sinister Nazis and imperial fascists 75 years ago.
It was under the leadership of West Point graduates like the legendary General Matthew Ridgway, that the army was at the forefront of ending the terrible injustice of segregation. It was army strength that held the line against brutal opposition and depression from communism. And it has been thanks to patriots like you, that America has climbed to new heights of human achievement and national endeavor. This is your history, this is the legacy that each of you inherits. It is the legacy purchased with American blood at the crest of Little Round Top, on the crimson beaches of Normandy, in the freezing mud of Bastogne and the dense jungles of Vietnam.
It is the legacy of courageous, selfless, faithful patriots, who fought for every inch of dirt, with every ounce of strength and every last scrap of heart and drive and grit they had. And they did it because they believed in the undying principles of our founding. They did it because they cherish their homes, their faith, their family, and their flag. And they did it because when they came to this school, they were taught to hold fast to their love of our country, to cherish our heritage, learn from it and build upon it.
That is what young Americans are taught here at West Point. That is the legacy that you carry forward as second lieutenants in the United States army. And you must never forget it. Through four long years, you have honed your skills, trained your mind and body, overcome every obstacle and earned your place of pride in the Long Gray Line. You made it through the rigors of R-Day and Beast and intensity of CLDT and weeks of training in the blistering heat, you have pushed yourselves far beyond every limit imaginable.
Some of you have even pushed the limits a bit too much. So for any cadets who have not finished walking off their hours, as commander in chief, I hear by absolve all cadets on restriction for minor conduct offenses, and that is effective immediately. Congratulations. That’s a nice one, isn’t it? Don’t you feel better now? Surviving the 47 month experience is never easy, but only the class of 2020 can say it survived 48 months. And when it comes to bragging rights, no one can boast louder than the class that brought Navy’s 14 year football winning streak to a screeching halt. You did that. I happened to be there.
I happened to be there. That’s right. That was a big day. I was there. You beat Navy and brought the Commander-In-Chief’s Trophy back to West Point for two straight years. So we say, "Go, Army, go." This graduating class secured more than 1000 victories for the Black Knights, including three bowl victories, 13 NCAA team appearances and a woman’s rugby championship, with the help of somebody that I just met, 2019 MVP, Sam Sullivan. Fantastic job. Thank you. Fantastic.
Five cadets won national boxing championships, and Adaya Queen brought home two. Brendan Brown, earned the title of Powerlifting National Champion. In academics, 38 cadets have earned fellowships to continue their studies, including First Captain Dane Van de Wall, who received one of the most prestigious awards in academia, the Rhodes Scholarship. Congratulations, Dane. It’s a great achievement. Thank you. Congratulations. Great achievement. But no one modeled the values of the soldiers
But no one modeled the values of the soldier-scholar quite like Lindy Mooradian. Lindy earned both the highest overall class standing and the highest physical program score. She has published scientific research in a prominent journal and set five new records on the athletic track. Lindy, incredible job. Where is Lindy? Where is Lindy? For somebody that did so well, they didn’t give you a very good seat, Lindy. We have to talk about that. Congratulations.
Right now, America needs a class of cadets that lives by your motto, "With vision, we lead." We need you to carry on the spirit of the great General Ulysses S. Grant. Soon after assuming overall command following three years of Union setbacks, General Grant encountered someone heading north to Washington during the Battle of the Wilderness. "If you see the President," Grant said, "tell him from me that whatever happens, there will never be no turning back." We need you to be as visionary as Patton, who, as a young man in 1917, became the first soldier assigned to the Army Tank Corps. One month into the job, he saw the future, writing, "If resistance is broken and the line is pierced, the tank must and will assume the role of pursuit cavalry and ride the enemy to death." Under Patton’s leadership, that’s exactly what they did.
We need you to be as bold and determined as the immortal General Douglas MacArthur, who knew that the American soldier never, ever quits. After leaving the Philippines for Australia at a low point of the Pacific War in 1942, MacArthur famously vowed, "I shall return." For two years, he then took great strategic risks and placed himself often in personal danger. On October 20th, 1944, MacArthur stepped off a landing boat, strode through knee-high water, and proclaimed, " People of the Philippines, I have returned. By the grace of Almighty God, our forces stand again on Philippine soil." He then called upon the island’s brave people to rise up and joined the fight. America’s momentum was unstoppable.
These great leaders were not afraid of what others might say about them. They didn’t care. They knew their duty was to protect our country. They knew the Army exists to preserve the Republic and the strong foundations upon which it stands: family, God, country, liberty, and justice. They were true, tough American Patriots. That is what our country needs, especially in these times, and that is what you are.
Each of you begins your career in the Army at a crucial moment in American history. We are restoring the fundamental principles, that the job of the American soldier is not to rebuild foreign nations, but defend and defend strongly our nation from foreign enemies. We are ending the era of endless wars. In its place is a renewed, clear-eyed focus on defending America’s vital interests. It is not the duty of US troops to solve ancient conflicts in faraway lands that many people have never even heard of. We are not the policemen of the world.
But let our enemies be on notice. If our people are threatened, we will never, ever hesitate to act, and when we fight, from now on, we will only fight to win. As MacArthur said, "In war, there is no substitute for victory."
To ensure you have the very best equipment and technology available, my administration has embarked on a colossal rebuilding of the American Armed Forces, a record like no other. After years of devastating budget cuts and a military that was totally depleted from these endless wars, we have invested over two trillion, trillion, that’s with a T, dollars in the most powerful fighting force by far on the planet Earth. We are building new ships, bombers, jet fighters, and helicopters by the hundreds, new tanks, military satellites, rockets, and missiles, even a hypersonic missile that goes 17 times faster than the fastest missile currently available in the world and can hit a target 1000 miles away within 14 inches from center point.
For the first time in 70 years, we established a new branch of the United States military, the Space Force. It’s a big deal.
In recent years, America’s warriors have made clear to all the high costs of threatening the American people. The savage ISIS caliphate has been 100% destroyed under the Trump administration and its barbaric leader, al-Baghdadi, is gone, killed, over. The world’s number one terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, is likewise dead. As Commander in Chief, I never forget for one instant the immense sacrifices we ask of those who wear this nation’s uniform. Already you have known the crushing pain of losing a brother in arms. Today we remember an extraordinary cadet who made the supreme sacrifice in an accident last year, CJ Morgan. We are deeply moved to be joined by his father, Chris.
Deeply moved to be joined by his father, Christopher Morgan was something very special. Christopher is a Secret Service agent, a tough guy, great guy, great son is looking down right now. Christopher, I want you to know that we will carry C.J.’s blessed memory in our hearts forever. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Tomorrow, America will celebrate a very important anniversary, the 245th birthday of the United States Army. Unrelated, going to be my birthday also. I don’t know if that happened by accident. Did that happen by accident, but it’s a great day because of that Army birthday, and as you know the Army’s first commander in chief, General George Washington, called the fort that stood on this majestic point the most important post in America. It’s strategic location on the Hudson River was vital to our war for independence. If British ships gained control of this river, they would have divided our young nation in two so American soldiers stretched a massive metal chain across the waters of the Hudson from West Point all the way to Constitution Island. I saw a piece of that chain. It’s incredible. No enemy ship even dared try to cross. Every link in that great chain was formed from over 100 pounds of pure American iron, mined from American soil, and made with American pride.
Together those links formed an unbreakable line of defense. Standing here before you more than two centuries later, it is clearer than ever that General Washington’s words still hold true. West Point is still the indispensable post for America, the vital ground that must not lose, and the survival of our nation still depends on the great chain reaching out from this place, one made not of iron, but of flesh and blood, of memory and spirit, of sheer faith and unyielding courage. Today each of you becomes another link in that unbroken chain, forged in the crucible known as the United States Military Academy, the greatest on Earth. It has given you soldiers that you could rely on to your right and to your left and now we are entrusting you with the most noble task any warrior has ever had, the privilege to carry out the task of preserving American liberty.
As long as you remain loyal, faithful and true, then our enemies don’t even stand a chance. Our rights will never be stolen. Our freedoms will never be trampled. Our destiny will never be denied and the United States of America will never be defeated. With the grace of God and the heroes of West Point, America will always prevail. Nothing will stand in your way. Nothing will slow you down and nothing will stop the West Point Class of 2020 from achieving a true and lasting victory. God bless you, God bless the United States Army, and God bless America. Congratulations, thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you very much, please. And thank you all for being here as we take historic action to deliver a future of safety and security for Americans of every race, religion, color, and creed. We’re joined today by law enforcement professionals and community leaders. Though we may all come from different places and different backgrounds, we’re united by our desire to ensure peace and dignity and equality for all Americans. I’ve just concluded a meeting with incredible families, just incredible families that have been through so much. The families of Ahmaud Arbery, Botham Jean, Antwon Rose, Jemel Roberson, Atatiana Jefferson, Michael Dean, Darius Tarver, Cameron Lamb and Everett Palmer.
These are incredible people, incredible people, and it’s so sad. Many of these families lost their loved ones in deadly interactions with police. To all of the hurting families I want you to know that all Americans mourn by your side, your loved ones will not have died in vain. We are one nation, we grieve together and we heal together. I can never imagine your pain or the depth of your anguish, but I can promise to fight for justice for all of our people. And I gave a commitment to all of those families today with Senator Tim Scott and Attorney General Bill Barr, we are going to pursue what we said. We will be pursuing it and we will be pursuing it strongly, Tim, right? Okay.
I want to recognize the Attorney General Bill Barr who has spent much time on this and other matters like this. Bill, thank you very much for being here along with great job you’re doing. Along with Senate Majority Leader, Mitch McConnell and Tim Scott, and they’re going to be working on a Senate bill also that could go hand in hand with this. And also representatives Kelly Armstrong, Louie Gohmert, Jim Jordan, Guy Reschenthaler and Pete Stauber. And thanks also to Florida Attorney General, Ashley Moody. The President of the Fraternal Order of Police, Pat Yoes. President of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, Steven Casstevens, and many other law enforcement leaders who are going to be joining me at the signing.
Today is about pursuing common sense and fighting, fighting for a cause like we seldom get the chance to fight for, we have to find common ground. But I strongly oppose the radical and dangerous efforts to defend, dismantle and dissolve our police departments, especially now when we’ve achieved the lowest recorded crime rates in recent history. Americans know the truth, without police there is chaos, without law there is anarchy and without safety there is catastrophe. We need leaders at every level of government who have the moral clarity to state these obvious facts.
Americans believe we must support the brave men and women in blue who police our streets and keep us safe. Americans also believe we must improve accountability, increase transparency and invest more resources in police training, recruiting and community engagement. Reducing crime and raising standards are not opposite goals, they are not mutually exclusive, they work together, they all work together. That is why today I’m signing an executive order encouraging police departments nationwide to adopt the highest professional standards to serve their communities. These standards will be as high and as strong as there is on earth.
The vast majority of police officers are selfless and courageous public servants. They are great men and women. When others run away from danger police run straight into harm’s way often putting their lives at stake to protect someone who they don’t know or never even met. Great danger. Police officers run straight toward this incredible harm. Take the World Trade Center, they ran straight into the Twin Towers of 9/11. Many of them never returned, never returned. Vast numbers of New York’s finest never returned.
Last year, I presented the Medal of Valor to six heroic police officers who ended a murderer’s rampage so professionally in Dayton, Ohio. Hundreds of people would have been killed surely without them. We ask our police to put on the uniform and risk their lives for us every day. The least we deserve and the least we can do because they deserve it so much, they have to get our gratitude and we have to give them great respect for what they do for their job is one of the most dangerous jobs on earth, one of the most difficult jobs on earth.
Last year alone 89 law enforcement offices were killed in the line of duty. In recent days two members of law enforcement were killed amid riots and looting and hundreds of police offices were injured just recently. One officer was shot in the head and is now laying in a hospital almost totally paralyzed. Despite our very good record on crime, law and order must be further restored nationwide and your Federal Government is ready, willing, and able to help. As we did in Minneapolis after it got out of control for four days, we sent in representatives commonly known as the National Guard, and it was all put down very quickly. We’re willing to help, we’re willing to help in Seattle, we’re willing to help anywhere you want and we’ll be there very quickly it won’t take long.
There will be no more looting or arson and the penalty will be very grave for those who get caught. Violence and destruction will not be tolerated, we cannot do that. The looters have no cause that they’re fighting for, it’s just trouble. Every day police officers make great sacrifices to keep our community secure and safe. In 2018 our police arrested nearly 12,000 people for murder, 25,000 people for rape and nearly 1.5 million for assault, very dangerous criminals. In many cases local law enforcement is underfunded, understaffed and undersupported.
47% of all murders in Chicago and 68% of all murders in Baltimore went without arrests last year. Americans want law and order, they demand law and order. They may not say it, they may not be talking about it but that’s what they want. Some of them don’t even know that’s what they want but that’s what they want, and they understand that when you remove the police, you hurt those who have the least, the most. Nobody needs a strong, trustworthy police force more than those who live in distressed areas. And nobody is more opposed to the small number of bad police officers, and you have them. They’re very tiny, I use the word tiny. It’s a very small percentage, but you have them. But nobody wants to get rid of them more than the overwhelming number of really good and great police officers. Some of them are standing with me and with me in the audience today and I appreciate you being here. Thank you, thank you. Great job.
What’s needed now is not more stoking of fear and division, we need to bring law enforcement and communities closer together, not to drive them apart. Under the executive order I’m signing today we will prioritize federal grants from the Department of Justice to police departments that seek independent credentialing, certifying that they meet high standards and in fact in certain cases, the highest standard. That’s where they do it the best on the use of force and deescalation training.
For example, many believe that proper training might have prevented the tragic deaths of Antwan Rose and Botham Jean. As part of this new credentialing process chokeholds will be banned except if an officer’s life is at risk. And I will say we’ve dealt with all of the various departments and everybody said, "It’s time, we have to do it." Additionally, we’re looking at new advanced and powerful less lethal weapons to help prevent deadly interactions. New devices are being developed all the time and we’re looking at the best of them and cost is no object, no object.
Under this executive order departments will also need a share of information about credible abuses so that offers with significant issues do not simply move from one police department to the next, that’s a problem. And the heads of our police department said, "Whatever you can do about that please let us know." We’re letting you know, we’re doing a lot about it. In addition, my order will direct federal funding to support officers in dealing with homeless individuals and those who have mental illness and substance abuse problems. We will provide more resources for co-responders, such as social workers who can help officers manage these complex encounters. And this is what they’ve studied and worked on all their lives, they understand how to do it. We’re going to get the best of them put in our police departments and working with our police.
We will have reform without undermining our many great and extremely talented law enforcement officers. President Obama and Vice President Biden never even tried to fix this during their eight-year period. The reason they didn’t try is because they had no idea how to do it, and it is a complex situation. Beyond the steps we’re taking today I am committed to working with Congress on additional measures. Congress has started already and there’ll be having bills coming out of the Senate and possibly out of the House, and hopefully they’ll all get together and they’ll come up with a solution that goes even beyond what we’re signing today. But this is a big, big step that hasn’t been taken before.
But in order to make real progress on public safety, we have to break old patterns of failure. Many of the same politicians now presenting themselves as the solution are the same ones who have failed for decades on schools, jobs, justice, and crime, they are all often. Unfortunately the same politicians running the cities and states where help is most needed. It’s an attitude and it’s not working. Today’s action is a big part of the solution to restoring, renewing and rebuilding our communities. For the last three and a half years my administration has been focused on creating opportunity, fighting for equal justice and truly delivering results. Nobody has ever delivered results like we’ve delivered, nobody’s come close.
And we work with some great people, we work with fantastic people to get it done. We enacted landmark criminal justice reform, something that nobody else could get done. They tried and they couldn’t even come close and we got it done and we got it done powerfully and people appreciated it. But it’s something that with all the work and all the talk for so many years, criminal justice reform, nobody else could get done. We secured permanent and record funding for HBCUs, that’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Numbers that they never thought were possible and long-term financing.
Because they would come back to the White House after my third year, I said, "Why are you here again?" Great people, about 42 people, the heads of black colleges and universities, great people. They do such an incredible job and I’d see them after the third year. I say, "Why are you doing this?" "We need money again." I said, "Don’t we set it so you have a 10-year program, a five-year program?" "You know, sir, for years and years we’ve had to come back every single year." I said, "Well, the only bad thing about what I’m going to do is I’m going to give you long-term financing and I’m going to up the amount, but I won’t get to see you anymore, so that’s the bad part. But you can focus on education now instead of worrying about dealing with us in Washington." So we did that for the historically black colleges and universities. I’m very proud of it, they’re incredible people. Got to know a lot of the heads of those colleges, they do an unbelievable job and don’t get the kind of notoriety that they should have.
We expanded affordable options for better healthcare. We created Opportunity Zones with Senator Tim Scott, brought it to me. We didn’t know if we could get it passed, Tim, right? But we got it passed and I think it’s probably one of the great things that we’ve done in this administration. Tens of thousands of jobs, billions and billions of dollars being brought into areas and neighborhoods that would never, ever, ever be taken care of monetarily, areas that didn’t have 25 cents put in them for years and decades. And now people are investing thriving and the jobs, they’ve come back.
We achieved the lowest black, Hispanic, and Asian unemployment rates in American history and we will do it again, we’ll do it again. We’re fighting for school choice, which really is the civil rights of all time in this country. Frankly school choice is the civil rights statement of the year, of the decade and probably beyond because all children have to have access to quality education. A child’s zip code in America should never determine their future and that’s what was happening. We’re very, very strong on school choice and I hope everybody remembers that. And it’s happening, it’s already happened, but it’s happening. We have tremendous opposition from people that know they shouldn’t be opposing it, school choice. All children deserve equal opportunity because we are all made equal by God, so true.
A great jobs market and thriving economy is probably the best thing that we can do to help the black, Hispanic, Asian communities. We saw that just recently prior to the virus that came in from China just a few months ago, what a horrible thing it was all over the world, 188 countries now. And I just want to say we’ve done incredibly well, we’re doing well. Things are happening that nobody can even believe. Our country is opening up and it’s opening up rapidly. We had the best unemployment and employment numbers, think of that. In the history of our country we’re up to almost 160 million people working, there was never anything even close. And that’s for almost every group, including black, Hispanic, Asian, women, young people, old people, young people without a high school diploma, every group.
Everybody was thrilled, everybody had just about high paying jobs. Our country was never in a better position and we were planning on massive growth, it was happening, it was already there. Including big salary increases which were already taking place for the last two and a half years. Big, big increases, record increases, nobody’s seen anything like it. And then we got hit by the virus along with the rest of the world and now I’m building it up again. Here we go again, but I’m building it up again and it’s moving fast and it will be even better than before because we also learned. It will be better than before.
Jobs are rapidly coming back and retail sales that were just announced two hours ago, just a little while ago, they’re up a staggering 17.7%. Amazing. The projection was anywhere from six to 8%, we’re up 17.7%. And what does that mean? The stock market went through the roof. These good numbers they drove it up to a level that we’re almost at the same level, hard to believe, we’re getting very close to the level we were before the pandemic and before all of the things that you’ve seen happen, happen. That’s a great thing because ultimately it’s about jobs, it’s about, the government can never do anything like a great job for a person where they look forward to getting up in the morning and going to work and getting a much bigger check than they could ever get otherwise.
Today and over the last 60 days we’ve had one of the biggest stock market increases in the history of the stock markets. And two weeks ago, the 50-day increase was the single biggest. Unless my formula is tampered with we will soon be in a stronger position than we were before the plague came in from China. When the numbers reached the point that I know they will, there will again be a great unity and a great spirit in our country. People will have that job back that they might’ve lost.
There’ll be making even more money than they did before. We have some brilliant people working with me and we put it together. We did it once and we’re very easily doing it again, we’re way ahead of schedule, you’ll see that. You’ll see the third quarter numbers will be very good. You’ll see fourth quarter will be really good and you’ll see next year will be one of the best economic years this country has ever had. And it’s all happening very quickly way ahead of schedule and I think you’ll see that people can’t even believe what they’re looking at.
But on top of all of that before the end of the year I predict we will have a very successful vaccine, therapeutic and cure. We’re making tremendous progress. I deal with these credible scientists, doctors very, very closely. I have great respect for their minds and they have come up with things and they’ve come up with many other cures and therapeutics over the years. These are the people, the best, the smartest, the most brilliant anywhere. And they’ve come up with the AIDS vaccine, they’ve come up with or the AIDS and as you know there’s various things and now various companies are involved.but the therapeutic for AIDS, AIDS was a death sentence and now people live a life with a pill, it’s an incredible thing.
The Ebola vaccine and others, these are the people that have done it, or these are the people that have been around it and they’re all competing, it’s an incredible thing. All of these brilliant firms, labs, companies are competing and I will tell you we’re very far advanced. We’ve already started tests and trials, so I think we’re going to have a very, very good answer to that very, very soon. I always say even without it, it goes away. But if we had the vaccine and we will, if we had therapeutic or cure, one thing, sort of blends into the other, it will be a fantastic day. And I think that’s going to happen and it’s going to happen very soon.
Americans can achieve anything when we work together as one national family. To go forward we must seek cooperation not confrontation. We must build upon our heritage, not tear it down. And we must cherish the principles of America’s founding as we strive to deliver safe, beautiful, elegant justice and liberty for all. I’d like now to invite our great friends, because they are a great friends from law enforcement. The officers representing their groups to come up as I sign a very important executive order. And we’re asking Mitch and Tim and all of the people that are here from Congress to go back and see if they can get something done.
I see Louie and Jim Jordan. We’re all here, a lot of our representatives in Congress and the Senate. If they can go back and add to what we’re signing today it’ll be a big moment, it will be a big moment. But this is a tremendous step. This is a step that could have been taken years ago but people chose not to do that and that was, in my opinion a big mistake. It could have solved a lot of the problems that we have now. If I could, law enforcement if you could come forward. We’ve had the please come up.
We’ve had the endorsement of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, International Association of Chiefs of Police, International Union of Police Associations. Major County Sheriffs of America Association, National Association of Police Organizations, National District Attorneys Association, National Sheriffs Association, Sergeants Benevolent Association, and many others. They’ve worked on this with me and my team and it’s been fantastic. I want to thank my team, what a team it is. And we’ve taken very much into mind what they are saying because these are the people that keep us safe and they’ve done an incredible job. Thank you all very much, Thank you.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you very much, thank you.
Alex Azar, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Ben Carson, who by the way, was fantastic over the weekend in various interviews you did Ben. Really good job. I appreciate it. Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Robert Wilkie, Administrator, Seema Verma, Chief Postal Inspector of the United States Postal Inspection Service, Gary Barksdale. Gary’s done a great job, especially with spotting drugs coming into our country. He’s done a fantastic job. My administration is working tirelessly to stop the depraved criminals who seek to defraud American seniors of which there are many, but we are doing a very strong number on a lot of them and nobody’s ever done what we’ve done. Three months ago, we launched the National Elder Fraud Hotline, which has already received over 1,800 calls. In three years, we’ve charged nearly 1,000 defendants involving over $2.2 billion in fraud against our seniors. This afternoon, the DOJ is announcing a $2 million grant to help new law enforcement identify victims and bring lawbreakers to justice.
These actions are just one part of our unwavering devotion to our senior citizens. Last month, I announced a deal to slash out-of-pocket costs. You have the out-of-pocket costs of insulin and insulin’s such a big deal and such a big factor of importance for our senior citizens. And we slashed costs for hundreds of thousands of Medicare beneficiaries. Impacted seniors will pay just $35 a month, an average saving of 66 to 100%. It was the biggest slashing of insulin. Nobody’s ever done it before. And we think we can even go further. We’re working on one. Call it a trap because you have a lot of different traps that get put in your way so that you can’t do these things, but we did it. And we think we’re even going to be able to go further. So we have $35 a month.
We vastly expanded Medicare telehealth services. That’s gone up probably more than any other thing. That’s the only thing, it’s probably the only thing you can say about COVID. Because of COVID, telehealth has been used at levels that nobody ever thought even possible. And it’s been fantastic. And I think a lot of people are going to continue to use it. Average basic Part D premiums have dropped 13.5% and average Medicare Advantage premiums have dropped 27%. And as you know, last year was the first year where drug prices in 52 years where drug prices have actually gone down, the cost of prescription drugs. We’re strongly defending Medicare and Social Security, and we always will. We’ll always protect our senior citizens and everybody against preexisting conditions. My administration is also taking vital action to protect seniors in nursing homes. We delivered $81 million for increased inspections and provided every Medicare certified nursing home with shipments of personal protective equipment.
We are working very, very hard with the governors of the states on their nursing homes, because obviously that was a very sad situation what happened to some of the states where they didn’t do a good job with respect to nursing homes. They were caught unaware. They were caught unaware, unfortunately. So we’re working very hard with the governors and with everybody having to do with nursing homes because it’s a vulnerability. It’s a real soft spot in terms of the COVID or any one of the 15 names you want to call it. There are plenty of them out there. Well, we know it came from China. That’s all we know. We now require nursing homes to report the coronavirus cases directly to CDC, residents, and family members, all family members. We’re working with extreme vigilance to protect nursing home residents from the virus. And as I said, that’s been a very important thing for us to be doing, everybody working with the governors on that.
My administration will never waiver in our relentless commitment to keep America’s seniors safe. We have to keep all of our seniors safe, and this is a very perilous time. And I think we’re going to be finishing up. I think we’re going to, Mike has some very good numbers to tell you about having to do with the cases. Again, our testing is so far advanced. It’s so much bigger and better than any other country that we’re going to have more cases. We’re always going to have more cases. And as I said this morning, that’s probably the downside of having good testing is you find a lot of cases that other countries who don’t even test don’t have. If you don’t test, you don’t have any cases. If we stop testing right now, we’d have very few cases, if any. But we do. We’re at a level that Mike is going to talk about that’s so high, but we will show more cases when other countries have far more cases than we do. They just don’t talk about it.
But the testing on the other hand is very good because we find out where it’s going, how it’s going, who it’s going to, and we take care of it. So with that, I’ll just say that we are fighting for American seniors. Like no administration has ever fought. We’re doing a great job in bringing down costs. We have other things like transparency that are going to be coming online in January, February, which will be an incredible thing. Nobody thought we could even get that approved, but we think we will see numbers there that will be incredible in terms of cost reduction for our seniors. So that’s very good. And Mike Pence, if you would please.
Nice place. Wow. I’ve been hearing about this one. Great job. Great job. Thank you very much for being here. It’s an honor and very important time in our country. A lot of things are happening and I think when it all ends up, it’s going to end up very good for everybody. It’s an honor to be at Gateway Church with the Attorney General, our great Attorney General, William Barr. And my friend, Ben Carson, who has done a fantastic job at HUD Secretary. And a young star, Jerome Adams, General. Where is Jerome? Jerome. Along with a lot of my friends out in the audience. In fact, a lot of the great political leaders from Texas I see. Some great, great friends and I want to thank you all for being here. Faith leaders, members of law enforcement, so important. We want law and order. We have to have a lot of good things, but we have to have law and order.
Got to have some strength. You have to have strength. You have to do what you have to do. And you look at a Seattle. We just came in. We just see over the screen and we’ve been hearing about it. Bill and I were talking about it. The law and order, look at what happened in Seattle. They took over a city, a city, a big city, Seattle, a chunk of it. A big chunk. Can’t happen. That couldn’t happen here I don’t think in the state of Texas. I don’t think so. I don’t think so.
So I want to thank Pastors Robert Morris and Steve Dolan. They’re great people, great people with a great reputation. I have to say that, great reputation. And Gateway Church, the team has been incredible in hosting us. And I’d now like to ask Pastor Morris and Bishop Jackson to lead us in prayer. Thank you.
at that point, it’s been an amazing thing to behold and we’re going to be starting our rallies. The first one we believe will be probably we’re just starting to call up, will be in Oklahoma, in Tulsa, Oklahoma. A beautiful new venue, brand new, and they’re looking forward to it. They’ve done a great job with COVID as you know, in the state of Oklahoma. And we’re going to be coming into Florida, do a big one in Florida, a big one in Texas, they’re all going to be big. We’re going to Arizona. We’re going to North Carolina at the appropriate time. The governor’s a little backward there, he’s a little bit behind. And unfortunately we’re going to probably be having no choice but to move the Republican convention to another location. That’ll be announced shortly, but we’ll have no choice. We wanted to stay in North Carolina very badly. We love it, it’s a great state. A state I won.
Many, many friends, many relatives, frankly, that live there. And we’ll see how it all works out. But the governor doesn’t want to give an inch. And what he’s doing is losing hundreds of millions of dollars for his state, but we’ll probably have no other recourse but to move it to another state. We have a lot of states that want it, Texas, Georgia, Florida. There are many, many states that want it. But we’ve given them everything we can, North Carolina, special place. But I think we’re going to probably end up giving you an announcement pretty soon. We are doing well in so many ways. You see what’s going on with NASDAQ. We just broke another record yesterday. Some good news came out of the federal reserve today. I think some very good news. We’re really doing a financial comeback, the job’s numbers were fantastic.
Now we’ll have some other job numbers come up over the next few weeks and we’ll see how that goes. But I think it’s really good and we’re on our way to a very big comeback. I’d like to ask some of the folks that I’m with today to say a few words. They’ve been really supporters and friends of mine. They understand life. They understand I think the black community better than anybody I know. And I will tell you, Ben Carson is an example of exactly what I’m talking about. He’s been my friend from the first day we met, I think, and we met, we were opponents, but we were never really opponents. Ben is a very exceptional guy. He’s done a fantastic job at HUD, but I’d like to maybe start with Ben to say a couple of words and go to Darrell. And the rest of us, let’s say a few words to the press. So if you would please, Ben.
Well, thank you very much. This is a very big day for our country. It’s affirmation of all the work we’ve been doing, really for three and a half years. This isn’t just over the last few months. This is for three and a half years. And it’s a great thing. We were very strong. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. We had the greatest economy in the history of the world. And that strength let us get through this horrible pandemic, largely through. I think we’re doing really well. Vaccines, by the way, I had a meeting yesterday on vaccines. We’re doing incredibly well with that. I think you’re going to have some very positive surprises. And therapeutics, likewise, we’re doing extremely well. Cures, we’re doing well. I think those two words really blend in with each other, but tremendous progress is being made on vaccines.
In fact, we have ready to go in terms of transportation and logistics. We have over two million ready to go, if it checks out for safety. And it’s also, the nice part is we have four companies, I guess you could even say seven or eight companies, that are doing some similar and some very different on the vaccine front. And some similar and somewhat different on the therapeutic front. So tremendous progress is being made on that. And I think even without that, and I have to say, even without that, and I don’t think you’re going to be having to use that in the future, that statement, "Even without," because I think they’re going to have it. But we’re going to be back and we’re opening our country. And I hope that the lockdown governors, I don’t know why they continue to lock down. Because if you look at Georgia, if you look at Florida, if you look at South Carolina, if you look at so many different places that have opened up, I don’t want to name all of them, but the ones that are most energetic about opening, they are doing tremendous business.
And this is what these numbers are all about. And you have to remember one other thing. Very importantly, I think it’s extremely important for you to remember that many of our states are closed or almost closed. Some of the big ones, New York, New Jersey. They’ll start. They’re starting now to get open. I hope. And I hope that you also use our National Guard. Call me. We’ll be ready for them so fast their heads will spin. We did it in Minnesota, in Minneapolis. We were incredible. They were ripping that place apart. I love it. We had such success there. And they were ripping it apart. And I called the governor and the National Guard went in. In one night it was over. You don’t see the problem in Minnesota now at all. Not even a little bit. You take a look at a great city.
It just great, great city, Minneapolis. And it was under siege like nobody’s ever seen. Where people are running from a police department, the great police, and they were told to. They didn’t want to run. They were told to. It’s bad, bad governing. And I’m not blaming the governor. I’m blaming the mayor. But we want to get all of this finished. This is a great tribute. What we’re announcing today is a tremendous tribute to equality. We’re bringing our jobs back. When we had our tremendous numbers. And when we had just prior to the China plague that floated in, we had numbers, the best in history for African American, for Hispanic American, and for Asian American and for everybody. Best for women, best for people without a diploma, young people without a diploma. I mean so many different categories. Our numbers were the best in almost every category.
We had the most people working in the history of our country, almost 160 million people. We were never even close to that. So we had things that we were doing so well and then it came in, but we’re going to be back there. I think we’re going to actually be back higher next year than ever before. And the only thing that can stop us is bad policy. Frankly, left-wing, bad policy of raising taxes, and Green New Deals and all of the things that you have been writing about long and hard that will stop it like you wouldn’t believe. And frankly, it’s holding it back. If there were no possibility that that can happen, and I like to be an optimistic person, I think we’re looking very good. I think even before today, the polls that I’ve seen in the polls that we do were looking very good.
But if we didn’t have the possibility of having massively higher taxes, like the Democrats want to do, and Green New Deals, which are totally ridiculous. Frankly, ridiculous. And I’m a big environmentalist. I believe strongly in taking care of our environment. We have the cleanest air we’ve ever had, like over the modern era. Which let’s say you go back 30 years, we have the cleanest air, the cleanest water we’ve ever had. We’re setting all sorts of really good environmental records. We’re very proud of that. But the Green New Deal would kill our country. The Green New Deal would have a devastating effect on the world. And it’s not going to happen anyway, because it’s impossible for them to do it. If you ever look at what they want to do under the Green New Deal, it’s like baby talk. But we are doing something that This was an important day because it shows that what we’ve been doing is right.
And the reason it’s been an is so good is because the body was strong. Our body were so powerful that we could actually close our country, save millions of lives, stop people very early on from China, from coming in, because we stopped early. At the end of January, very early, people coming from China who were infected, coming into our country. That was a very hard decision to make. Nobody, almost nobody wanted me to make it. I would almost say nobody wanted me to make it. But we made that decision. And even my enemy said, that was an extremely important We saved tens of thousands of lives with that decision. So we did a lot of things. And then we really ended up with empty cupboards. We went into a ventilator period that the likes of which nobody’s seen since the second World War, we mobilized. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it.
And then we did test, we’re over 20 million or very close, but I think we’re over 20 million tests. More than anybody in the world. Germany is at about four. And South Korea is at three and a half. We’re over 20. And by the way, when you do more testing, you have more cases. We have more cases than anybody because we do more testing than anybody. It’s pretty simple. But this is outstanding what’s happened today. Now, they thought the number would be a loss of nine million jobs. And it was a gain of almost three million jobs. Nobody’s ever seen anything. I think it was incredible in a couple of ways. Number one, the numbers are great. And this leads us onto a long period of growth. We’ll go back to having the greatest economy anywhere in the world. Nothing close. And I think we’re going to have a very good upcoming few months.
I think you’re going to have a very good August, very good July, but a spectacular Maybe spectacular September. But a spectacular October, November, December, and next year is going to be one of the best years we’ve ever had economically. And if you look at the numbers, they bear it out. But we were strong. It’s sort of like when you go in for an operation, if a person is healthy, healthy, we were healthy. We had the greatest economy in the world. We went in for an operation. We closed our country down. We closed it down. We saved possibly two million, two and a half million lives. Now, it could have been a million lives. I don’t think anything less than that. But if you think we’re at 105 million today, the 105,000 today, that would mean at the lowest number, it would be 10 times that amount. And I think everybody believes the least If we went herd, as they say.
And if you look at Brazil, they’re having a very hard time. And by the way, they kept bringing up Sweden. It’s come back to haunt Sweden. Sweden’s having a terrible time. If we did that, we would have lost a million, a million and a half, maybe even two and a half million or more lives. So we’re at 105,000 lives. Big move, closing it up. We also closed it up to Europe. Europe became very infected from China. A gift from China. Not good. They should have stopped it. They should’ve stopped it at the source. But it’s a gift from China and a very bad gift. I will tell you that. And you do say how come at Wuhan, where it started, and they were very badly They were in bad trouble. But it didn’t go to any other parts.
It didn’t go to Beijing. It didn’t go to other parts of China. Then you say, "How come it came out to Europe, to the world, to the United States?" So it didn’t go to China. They stopped it cold. They knew it was a problem. But they didn’t stop it cold from coming to the United States, Europe and the rest of the world. Somebody has to ask these questions. And we’ll get down to the answer. We made a great trade deal. Great. They’re going to buy $250 billion worth of product. And by the way, they are online, they’re doing okay. But the ink wasn’t dry on that deal when the plague floated in. What’s going on? A plague is floating in from China. What’s going on? So the ink wasn’t dry. So I guess I viewed the trade deal a little bit differently than I did three months ago.
It’s a great deal. I will say they are buying a lot from us. And in that way, I respect. And getting along with China would be a good thing. I don’t know if that’s going to happen. I’ll let you know. We’ll let you know. I think they want to get along very much with us. But we built a tremendous thing, a tremendous power platform. So when it got ill, when we had a problem, we were able to cut it off, stop it, just like this. Stop it. Keep everyone inside, keep them away, keep them together, away, uninfected. And we saved millions of lives. And now we’re opening and we’re opening with a bang. And we’ve been talking about the V. This is better than a V. This is a rocket ship. This is far better than a V. A V is wonderful. A V is this. They were talking about, will it be a V, a U, an L? They had no idea.
And I was watching one of the shows, and I have great respect for the people. And they said, "Will it be nine million in job losses? What will the number be? Are they going to report record numbers? Will we break 20%? What will the number be?" And I don’t know, because we were in, and I don’t think we’re in that territory anymore. We were in unchartered territory. Nobody’s ever had a situation like that. So the number was nine million, and one of the people was going, "No, no. I think it’s going to be 10 million." That’s 10 million negative, losses. And then somebody else said, "No, we think it’s going to be 8.7, 9.2." Everyone was right around that number. This is Great geniuses. And they are. I watch them all the time. And oftentimes they’re right.
Warren Buffet sold airlines a little while ago. He’s been right his whole life. But sometimes even somebody like Warren Buffet, I have a lot of respect for him. They make mistakes. They should have kept the airline stocks, because the airline stocks went through the roof today. And others did too. The whole market went through the roof. But they said nine million, nine million job losses, nine million. It’s what it’s going to be. Are we going to break 20%? Are we going to break it? And then the numbers came in and one of the folks that was reading the numbers said, "Wow, this is a great number. It’s only three million job losses." And then reading it and say, "I don’t think I’m not reading this right. Let me look at it again. Wait a minute. This is three million gain almost." Three million jobs gained. And then they shouted out, one of them, sort of semi shouted out. "Is this a typo?" I think it was probably the greatest miscalculation in the history of business shows.
In the history of business shows talking about Wall Street. And that’s okay. But one of the reasons we’re in this position is because we had such a strong foundation. So we were able to close our country, save millions of lives, open, and now the trajectory is great. Don’t forget. New York is barely included. And that’s one of our big ones. California is barely included, because they’re not open. And they should open. By the way, the mayor of Los Angeles wants to keep this thing closed for a long time. Look at what’s going on in Florida. It’s incredible. The job the governor of Florida has done. It’s incredible. The numbers they’re doing, you’ve got to open it up. And you do social distancing and you wear masks if you want.
And you do things, you can do a lot of things. You’re getting closer together. Even you. I notice you’re starting to get much closer together. It looks much better, I must say. You’re not all the way there yet, but you’ll be there soon. But it’s a tremendous thing that happened. And the reason it happened is because we had a really strong patient. We had a patient that was so powerful, so strong, that we could close it and open. And I give it this analogy. Somebody told me yesterday, it was Larry Kudlow.
He said, "Sir, this is like a hurricane." And we were worried. We didn’t know, is this going to be a hurricane or a major, major recession? A major recession that’s not artificially caused, because this was artificially closed. We just said, "Boom. Closed." And everything just stopped. And also, you know what else stopped? Big numbers on death, by doing it. And that’s why I had to do it. We’ve made every decision correctly. But, it was like we stopped. So it was an artificial-
Correctly. But it was like we stopped. So it was an artificial closing. And then what happened very incredibly is the numbers go. And Larry was saying that with a hurricane, you have a horrible hurricane in Florida or Texas, and it’s devastating. And then the hurricane goes away and within two hours, everyone’s rebuilding and fixing and cleaning and cutting their grass. I’ve seen it in Texas. I’ve seen it everywhere. I’ve seen it everywhere. Texas had a massive one, Louisiana, hurricanes, Florida hurricanes. But what happens is right after the hurricane, boom, and this is what this is, this isn’t a terrible recession. I don’t even mention the D word. I don’t talk about the D word, I don’t want to talk about it, because every time somebody even mentions it, I don’t like the D word. But if you had a really, really big, bad recession, it could take 10, 12. How long did it take in 1929? It took many years to recover from that. How long?
10? I heard 10, I think, longer than 10, but that’s okay. I heard 14, 15 years. Larry says 10, so let’s go with 10. But it takes a long time to recover, but a hurricane you’re back in business in one day, two days, three days, and it’s devastating and it’s hard. And this was a hurricane. And it’s going to get better fast because a lot of the numbers that you see, they’re early numbers. They’re not even from this last month.
And by the way, speaking of that, you had the greatest 50 day rally in the history of our exchanges, the greatest 50 day rally. And we have a lot of protestors and we have something else. We have something else. We have a pandemic, we’ve made tremendous progress really on both if you look at where we’ve come on, both, we’ve made tremendous progress on both, tremendous progress. But you’re looking and the people are now starting to return to work.
So it’s been an incredible thing to see. It’s been a beautiful thing to see. The experts predicted that the economy would lose tremendous numbers of jobs, and of course from the beginning, it has, but you’re going to see how fast that’s made up. I’m telling you next year, unless something happens, where the wrong people get in here, this can turn around, your 401ks will go down to numbers. If people didn’t get rid of stocks and their 401Ks, they’re almost even, think of it. With a pandemic, and with one of the worst things that’s ever happened, our country has never lost 105,000 people. Whether it’s world trade center, which was 2,900 or Pearl Harbor, which was less than that, we’ve never lost anything close to this, but it’s not only our country, it’s the whole world. The world is suffering so badly, 186 countries at this moment. And that affects us too.
But we’re a positive force. We are the key to the world in a sense, and the fact that we’re doing well, I see already, they’re starting to do much better in other parts of the world. That’s a great thing because we’re working with the world and we’ll work with China too. We’ll work with everybody. But what happened should have never happened.
So we had a tremendous morning, a tremendous announcement. It was shocking to even great pros. I watched Maria Bartiromo, I watched Jim Kramer, I watched a lot of people, Joe Kiernan. He was pretty positive. Charles Payne, he was very positive for a long time. A lot of people got it right. They had confidence in me. They had confidence in this team and they got it right. I think that’s the only thing they could base it on because we were an unchartered territory.
I like to just say that renewal, restoration or recovery of the most vulnerable areas of America is going to be my focus, it’s going to be a big focus because it’s taking care of itself, but we have to help that very vulnerable area, the vulnerable. It’s not right. And we’re helping them, and we have helped them in the past. They were all sent to opportunity zones, criminal justice reform, nobody’s ever done for the black community what president Trump has done. Think of it. Historically, black, small colleges and universities, they would come here for money every year, every year for many, many years. After three years, I said, "Why are you doing this? Why do you keep coming here?" They said, "Because we come," I said, "Don’t you get a longterm deal so you don’t have to come?"
The head of one of the very respected colleges looked at me and said, "Sir, we’re like beggars. Every year we have to come to Washington and beg for money." I said, "You should have a longterm deal." And we signed a longterm deal so they don’t have to come. I’ll miss them, I told them I miss them, I got to know them. But the first year, I didn’t think anything of it, the second year I said, "That’s strange. Why you here?" And then the third year, not so long ago, same people, the heads of the historically black, small colleges and universities, 44 people, maybe a little more than that. Little less than that sometimes. But after three years I said, "What are you doing?" They said, "The past administration did nothing for us. The administration before that did nothing for them." So I’m going to do it.
So we did the opportunities zones with Senator Tim Scott. It has been fantastic. And by the way, it’s one of the great unknowns, because the opportunity zones you don’t talk about, it’s one of the most incredible stories ever in terms of the inner cities and in terms of black and Hispanic and Asian unemployment opportunities, as you ought to do some stories about opportunity zones. Billions and billions of dollars of private money is being invested in putting people to work and getting money that they’ve never made before.
So it’s been a really a terrific thing. It’s now time for us to work together as we rebuild, renew and recover the great promise of America, and that’s true, we’re going to work together. It’ll all work out. It’ll all work out. Some governors may need a little help yet, but I think for the most part, they are in good shape.
We have a fantastic military. We have fantastic national guard. National guard was barely used and these people have done an unbelievable job. They helped the secret service at Washington. Secret service by the way, are unbelievable. The job they did at the white house is unbelievable. There was never any form of like, "Oh gee, this sounds dangerous." All I could see is what I was seeing on television. But they were outside. And the secret service was incredible, but we were also helped by the DC police and we were helped by the national guard was unbelievable. They came in and they This was like a piece of cake.
And I really am suggesting because if you look at Minnesota and the great success we had there, and other places, I’m suggesting to some of these governors that are too proud in New York, you see what’s going on there. Don’t be proud, get the job done. You’ll end up looking much better in the end. Call in the national guard, call me. We’ll have so many people, more people than you have to dominate the streets. You can’t let what’s happening happen. It’s called dominate the streets. You can’t let that happen in New York where they’re breaking into stores and all of the things. And by the way, hurting many small businesses, you can’t let it happen.
Equal justice under the law must mean that every American receives equal treatment in every encounter with law enforcement, regardless of race, color, gender or creed, they have to receive fair treatment from law enforcement. They have to receive it. We all saw what happened last week. We can’t let that happen. Hopefully George is looking down right now and saying, "This is a great thing that’s happening for our country." This is a great day for him. It’s a great day for everybody. This is a great day for everybody. This is a great, great day in terms of equality. It’s really what our constitution requires and it’s what our country is all about.
I just want to finish by saying, to save the economy, we passed several pieces of critical legislation, totally many trillions of dollars meaning three. We’re set up to do more if we want. I think we should, because we are dominant. For many years as a bystander, but somebody that loved government, somebody that loved this country, I would watch and study and see, when I say study, naturally study by watching. But if you go back, China was going to catch us in 2019. And that was like a given. You go back five years, six years, seven years, it was always, yeah, China will catch America, catch the United States in 2019, and then it will become the dominant economy. Never happened. It’s not going to happen.
We dominated them over the last year and a half, two years, we took in tens of billions of dollars in tariffs that they paid for. I gave some of that money, just a small fraction to our farmers, which made them whole, more than whole. That’s why they’re all in business, made them more than whole. And it came right out of the tariff money. And the reason we didn’t pay is because China devalued their currency and they paid. Plus they also put additional money to it, because if they didn’t do that, nobody would have bought that product. We made a great deal because of that. That’s the only reason we’re able to make a good deal, because of the possibility of tariffs, because China’s taking tremendous advantage of the United States. We helped rebuild China. We gave them $500 billion a year. How stupid, how stupid are the people that represented our country with China and many other countries? But that’s all changing. And it was in the process of changing very big. Again, China had a very bad year before the plague and now I think hopefully, they’re going to have a great year. I want them to have a great year, but we’re going to have better years than they ever had. We have a better system, much better system.
We made Americans sure. Of themselves and we took care of families, we gave benefits and we set $1200 to every individual making less than $75,000 and $4,000 almost to every family of four earning less than 150,000. That’s a lot, isn’t it? When you think 150, but that’s what’s happening with our country. If you look at other countries, even countries that you think they’re doing well, they don’t talk about 150,000 as being median. $150,000, that’s tremendous. That’s a great tribute to the people of our country.
The job surge that we’re seeing right now is widespread. Leisure and hospitality added 1.2 million jobs. Construction jobs are up, listen to this, 464,000. Education and health services road is 424,000. Retail trade is up 368,000. And here is the one I liked the best, remember previous administration that you need a magic wand for manufacturing. Manufacturing, which we had up to 600,000 jobs, prior to the plague manufacturing rose to 225,000 jobs, up by. So we picked up 225,000 manufacturing jobs. That’s very unexpected.
Everything that you’ve seen this morning is unexpected. Even the pros sitting here would understand that, everything. We also smashed expectations on the unemployment rate. The prediction was that the unemployment rate would rise to over 20%, and instead of drop to around a little more than 13%, slight difference. And this time the greatest come back in American history today is probably if you think of it, the greatest comeback in American history, but it’s not going to stop here. It’s going to keep going because so many places are closed.
I was watching a great vice-president today being interviewed on CNBC, he did a phenomenal job and he, he made a statement. He said, "This is not going to stop," and a hundred percent, he’s always attributing everything to me, but I’ll attribute this statement to him. He said, "It’s not going to stop because the numbers that you’re looking at don’t include all of those States that are closed, they haven’t even opened yet." We’re going to be stronger than we were when we were riding high. And our stock market is almost, it’s just short of an all time high.
I’ve had 144 all time, high stock markets during a three and a half year period. Nobody’s ever come close to that and we’re going to do it again, but it’s going to be even stronger than last time.
When I would say that to you, two, three months ago, I could see what’s happened. I have a good feeling, I’ve always done well with numbers, but I had a feel for it. I said it even the other day, I was saying, "I think we’re going to have a tremendous next year. I think it’s going to be a phenomenal next year." I didn’t know it would start this quickly. I thought we’d start in August, September, but it started very early. It’s an amazing thing, but it means that they’re likely to return and all of these jobs that we’re talking about
to return. And all of these jobs that we’re talking about now aren’t even included, because some of our biggest places aren’t opened. They’re opening up now. I think New York’s opening up as of today, and that’s one of our big ones. New Jersey. They’re all working hard, the governors are all working hard. To save millions of American lives, we took that unnecessary evil  we took it out of the equation. We had to do what we did. We had a very, very strong push not to do anything. We would have lost so many people. But very importantly, the economy wouldn’t have been as good as it is, because nobody expected this. I don’t think there’s anybody sitting here that can say, I want to see it on tape, as opposed to just saying, "Oh, I did that." But some were predicting pretty good numbers, like people I mentioned. But we took a tremendous step and a tremendous risk, and we’ve gone up at a level. And this level is going to be nothing compared to what you see in coming months, and especially next year.
So the best strategy to ensure the health of our people moving forward is to focus our resources on protecting high-risk populations, like the elderly and those in nursing homes, while allowing younger and healthier Americans to get back to work immediately. And open up our schools, open them up. We understand this disease now. We didn’t understand it. Nobody’s ever seen it before. It’s very tough, very contagious. We’ve learned a lot we didn’t know. Nobody knew anything about it, but we learned a-
take care of our vets. We got choice-approved for the vets. So instead of waiting in line for four weeks to see a doctor, they can go immediately outside, get a private doctor, we pay for the bill, and the vet is in great shape. We actually save money, but more importantly, we save their lives, and we save the quality of their life. They were dying. They would come onto a line, they’d have to wait four or five weeks, they wouldn’t be very sick. By the time they see the doctor, they’d be terminally ill. We don’t have that anymore. You don’t hear any bad stories about the vets anymore. That doesn’t mean go out and find them, because tonight you’ll be traveling all over the world looking for an unhappy event.
And we got accountability, because we had a lot of bad people in the VA. It’s called VA Accountability, where we can now fire people that don’t treat our vets good. We have sadists, we have thieves, we have a lot of bad people. And we can now  it’s called VA Accountability. Almost 50 years, they’ve been trying to get it. Choice, almost 50 years, they’ve been trying to get it. For many, many years. I’ve been hearing about it for years. They’ve been trying to get VA choice. Choice means you can have a choice of a doctor. You don’t have to wait in line if you have a long line. I have to say, the VA has great doctors, but you can’t get to them very quickly. Now they go outside and they take care of themselves.
So we’ve had a great morning. This is just the beginning. It’s going to be incredible. I’m going to sign our very important piece of legislation. Again, thank you very much to the Democrats. And then we’re going to have a couple of words by a few of the people standing alongside of me. I want to thank them so much. And we’ll talk to you soon.
Thank you very much. My fellow Americans, my first and highest duty as president is to defend our great country and the American people. I swore an oath to uphold the laws of our nation and that is exactly what I will do. All Americans were rightly sickened and revolted by the brutal death of George Floyd. My administration is fully committed that for George and his family, justice will be served. He will not have died in vain, but we cannot allow the righteous cries and peaceful protestors to be drown out by an angry mob. The biggest victims of the rioting are peace loving citizens in our poorest communities and as their president, I will fight to keep them safe. I will fight to protect you. I am your president of law and order and an ally of all peaceful protesters. But in recent days, our nation has been gripped by professional anarchists, violent mobs, arsonists, looters, criminals, rioters, Antifa and others.
A number of state and local governments have failed to take necessary action to safeguard their residents. Innocent people have been savagely beaten like the young man in Dallas, Texas, who was left dying on the street or the woman in upstate New York, viciously attacked by dangerous thugs. Small business owners have seen the dreams utterly destroyed. New York’s finest have been hit in the face with bricks, brave nurses who have battled the virus are afraid to leave their homes. A police precinct has been overrun here in the nation’s Capitol, the Lincoln Memorial and the World War II Memorial have been vandalized. One of our most historic churches was set a blaze. A federal officer in California, an African American enforcement hero was shot and killed. These are not acts of peaceful protest, these are acts of domestic terror. The destruction of innocent life and the spilling of innocent blood is an offense to humanity and a crime against God.
America needs creation not destruction, cooperation not contempt, security not anarchy, healing not hatred, justice not chaos. This is our and we will succeed 100% we will succeed. Our country always wins. That is why I am taking immediate presidential action to stop the violence and restore security and safety in America. I am mobilizing all available, federal resources, civilian and military, to stop the rioting and looting to end the destruction and arson and to protect the rights of law abiding Americans, including your second amendment rights. Therefore, the following measures are going into effect immediately. First, we are ending the riots and lawlessness that has spread throughout our country. We will end it now. Today I have strongly recommended to every governor to deploy the national guard in sufficient numbers that we dominate the streets, mayors and governors must establish an overwhelming law enforcement presence until the violence has been quelled.
If a city or state refuses to take the actions that are necessary to defend the life and property of their residents, then I will deploy the United States military and quickly solve the problem for them. I am also taking swift and decisive action to protect our great Capitol Washington DC. What happened in this city last night was a total disgrace. As we speak, I am dispatching thousands and thousands of heavily armed soldiers, military personnel, and law enforcement offices to stop the rioting, looting, vandalism assaults and the wanton destruction of property. We are putting everybody on warning our seven o’clock curfew will be strictly enforced. Those who threatened innocent life and property will be arrested, detained and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. I want the organizers of this terror to be on notice that you will face severe criminal penalties and lengthy sentences in jail.
This includes Antifa and others who are leading instigators of this violence. One law and order and that is what it is. One law, we have one beautiful law and once that is restored and fully restored, we will help you, we will help your business and we will help your family. America is founded upon the rule of law. It is the of our prosperity, our freedom and our very way of life, but where there is no law, there is no opportunity, where there is no justice there is no Liberty, where there is no safety there is no future. We must never give in to anger or hatred if malice or violence rains, then none of us is free. I take these actions today with firm resolve and with a true and passionate love for our country by far our greatest days lie ahead. Thank you very much and now I’m going to pay my respects to a very, very special place. Thank you very much.
I want to thank our great Vice President for your fearless and tireless commitment to fulfilling America’s destiny in space. Thank you very much, Mike. Great job. Great job. We’re all so grateful to Mike’s wonderful wife, Karen, for being here and for all she does for our country. Thank you. Thank you, Karen. Before going further on this exciting day for all America in space, I want to say a few words about the situation in Minnesota. The death of George Floyd on the streets of Minneapolis was a grave tragedy. It should never have happened. It has filled Americans all over the country with horror, anger and grief. Yesterday, I spoke to George’s family and expressed the sorrow of our entire nation for their loss. I stand before you as a friend and ally to every American seeking justice and peace and I stand before you in firm opposition to anyone exploiting this tragedy to loot, rob, attack and menace. Healing, not hatred, justice, not chaos, are the mission at hand.
The police officers involved in this incident have been fired from their jobs. One officer has already been arrested and charged with murder. State and federal authorities are carrying out an investigation to see what further charges may be warranted, including against sadly, the other three. In addition, my administration has opened a civil rights investigation and I have asked the Attorney General and the Justice Department to expedite it. I understand the pain that people are feeling. We support the right of peaceful protestors and we hear their pleas, but what we are now seeing on the streets of our cities has nothing to do with justice or with peace. The memory of George Floyd is being dishonored by rioters, looters and anarchists. The violence and vandalism is being led by Antifa and other radical left wing groups who are terrorizing the innocent, destroying jobs, hurting businesses and burning down buildings.
The main victims of this horrible, horrible situations are the citizens who live in these once lovely communities. The mobs are devastating the life’s work of good people and destroying their dream. Right now, America needs creation, not destruction, cooperation, not contempt, security, not anarchy and there will be no anarchy. Civilization must be cherished, defended, and protected. The voices of law abiding citizens must be heard and heard very loudly. We cannot and must not allow a small group of criminals and vandals to wreck our cities and lay waste to our communities. We must defend the rights of every citizen to live without violence, prejudice, or fear. We support the overwhelming majority of police officers who are incredible in every way and devoted public servants. They keep our city safe, protect our communities from gangs and drugs and risk their own lives for us every day.
No one is more upset than fellow law enforcement offices by this small handful who failed to abide by their oath to serve and protect. My administration will stop mob violence and we’ll stop it cold. It does not serve the interest of justice or any citizen of any race, color, or creed for the government to give into anarchy, abandoned police precincts, or allow communities to be burned to the ground, won’t happen. Those making excuses or justifications for violence are not helping the downtrodden, but delivering new anguish and new pain. From day one of my administration, we’ve made it a top priority to build up distressed communities and revitalize our crumbling inner cities. We fought hard with Senator Tim Scott and many others to create opportunity zones, helping to draw a surge of new investment to the places in our country that need it most.
We must all work together as a society to expand opportunity and to create a future of greater dignity and promise for all of our people. We must forge a partnership with community leaders, local law enforcement and the faith community to restore hope. Radical left criminals, thugs, and others all throughout our country and throughout the world, will not be allowed to set communities ablaze. We won’t let it happen. It harms those who have the least, and we will be protecting those who have the least. The leadership of the National Guard and the Department of Justice are now in close communication with state and city officials in Minnesota and we’re coordinating our efforts with local law enforcement all across our nation. In America, justice is never achieved at the hands of an angry mob. I will not allow angry mobs to dominate, won’t happen. It is essential that we protect the crown jewel of American democracy, the rule of law and our independent system of justice.
Every citizen in every community has the right to be safe in their workplace, safe in their homes and safe in our city streets. This is the sacred right of all Americans that I am totally determined to defend and will defend. My administration will always stand against violence, mayhem and disorder. We will stand with the family of George Floyd, with the peaceful protestors and with every law abiding citizen who wants decency, civility, safety, and security. We are working toward a more just society, but that means building up, not tearing down.
But that means building up, not tearing down, joining hands, not hurling fests, standing in solidarity, not surrendering to hostility. Moments ago as we went and just the launch of two great American astronauts into space, we were filled with the sense of pride and unity that brings us together as Americans. That same spirit, which powered our astronauts to the moon has also helped lift our country to ever greater heights of justice and opportunity throughout our history. So today, as we mark a renewed commitment to America’s future in space, a tremendous commitment it is. Let us also commit to a brighter future for all of our citizens right here on earth. When Americans are united, there is nothing we cannot do. From day one of my administration, we put America first.
This afternoon, I am delighted to be with you at Cape Canaveral in this storied home of American daring aspiration and drive. This is the first big space message in 50 years, think of that, and it is an honor to be delivering it. Today as we gather in this special place to celebrate not only the launch of a new spacecraft, but also our Nation’s bold and triumphant return to the stars, it’s a special day. Moments ago, the world bore witness to the flight of the first new manned U.S. spacecraft in nearly 40 years since the space shuttle launched in 1981, a long time ago. I am thrilled to announce that the SpaceX Dragon capsule has successfully reached low earth orbit and that our astronauts are safe and sound. With this launch, the decades of last years and little action are officially over. A new age of American ambition has now begun. Past leaders put the United States at the mercy of foreign nations to send our astronauts into orbit. Not anymore. Today, we once again, proudly launch American astronauts on American rockets, the best in the world from right here on American soil.
Those of us who saw the spectacular and unforgettable liftoff this afternoon watched more than an act of history. We watched an act of heroism. Every time our astronauts climb aboard a rocket, which is many, many stories of only engine and fuel and vault across the sky, they display breathtaking valor. What Colonel Douglas Hurley and Colonel Robert Behnken did this afternoon was pure American genius and courage. They joined the ranks of just seven prior American astronauts who have made the perilous maiden voyage to test a new class of spacecraft. The names of Hurley and Behnken will stand in the history books alongside those of legends like Alan Shepard, Gus Grissom, John Young. Now these brave and selfless astronauts will continue their mission to advance the cause of human knowledge as they proceed to the International Space Station before returning to Earth. We wish them Godspeed on their journey and as one proud nation, we salute their fearless service. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
I also want to send our Nation’s gratitude to the wives of these valiant astronauts, both of whom are astronauts themselves, Karen Nyberg and Megan McArthur. We join them in praying for our heroes safe return. As you know, this spring, our nation has endured the pain and hardship of a global pandemic. As we usher in a new era of manned spacecraft, we are reminded that America is always in the process of transcending great challenges. Our Nation is blessed with limitless reserves of talent, tenacity, and resolve. The same spirit of American determination that sends our people into space, will conquer this disease on Earth. It should have never happened. Nothing, not even gravity itself can hold Americans down or keep America back. We are grateful to NASA Administrator, Jim Bridenstine and Director of Kennedy Space Center, Bob Cabana, for welcoming us this evening. Very special. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. Great job.
Come a long way in three and a half years, Jim haven’t we? A long way. To the incredible men and women of NASA from here at Kennedy Space Center to the Johnson Space Center in Texas, we love you too, to NASA Plum Brook Station in Sandusky, Ohio, thank you all for working so hard to make this day a reality. We have many other great days almost ready to happen. Also with us are many members of my cabinet, including our great new DNI, John Radcliffe. Thank you, John. Thank you. We have a great friend of mine, special man ran a great, great campaign, Governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis. Thank you, Ron. Thank you, Ron. Your senators, Rick Scott and Marco Rubio. Thank you very much. Thank you. Leader Kevin McCarthy, Kevin, thank you very much. Great job you do Kevin. And representatives, Matt Gaetz, John Rutherford, Michael Waltz, Bill Posey, Gus Bilirakis, Daniel Webster, Brian Mast, Elise Stefanik, Bill Flores, Brian Babin, Rodney Davis, Roger Marshall and Steven Palazzo. Thank you very much. Thank you.
What a great group of people. They’re warriors, they’re really warriors. They helped so much get this done and so many other things. With us also-
With us also, is our Air Force Chief Of Staff General David Goldfein. General, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, General. Thank you. And Chief of Space Operation, the first ever named, and now a member of the joint chiefs of staff, because we created the United States Space Force. General Jay Raymond. Thank you very much, Jay. Thank you, Jay.
And senior members also of our great United States military, has never been stronger than it is right now. Also Attorney General of Florida, Ashley Moody, and Chief Financial Officer of Florida, Jimmy Patronis and many other distinguished guests. Thank you very much for being here, we appreciate it. I especially want to congratulate someone who truly embodies the American ethos, a big thinking and risk taking. After achieving success as an internet entrepreneur, he could’ve spent his fortune doing anything, including yachting, lots of things, he could do lots of things. But in 2002, he began pouring tens of millions of dollars of his own money into research and development for a new rocket. He’s a little different than a lot of other people. He liked rockets. He assembled a crew of some of the greatest minds and talent in American aerospace. In the years since SpaceX has become the first private company to develop and successfully launch its own rocket into orbit. The first to launch and recover its own capsule. And of course, moments ago, SpaceX became the first private company to put humans into orbit around the earth. Elon Musk, congratulations. Congratulations, Elon. Thanks Elon. For Elon and 8,000 SpaceX employees, today is the fulfillment of a dream almost two decades in the making. For years on end, they have worked hand in hand with NASA, sculpting aluminum, tightening valves, tuning nozzles, testing parachutes, and filling massive tanks with thousands and thousands of pounds of kerosene and liquid oxygen. Today, the groundbreaking partnership between NASA and SpaceX has given our nation the gift of an unmatched power, a state of the art spaceship to put our astronauts into orbit at a fraction of the cost of the Space Shuttle and it’s much better. From now on the United States will leverage the fast growing capabilities of our commercial sector and the finest pieces of real estate on Earth, which you need very badly, to send U.S. astronauts into space. Under NASA’s commercial crew program, we will use rockets and spacecraft designed, built, owned, and launched by private American companies at a fixed price for the American taxpayer. Today’s launch makes clear the commercial space industry is the future. The modern world was built by risk takers and renegade fierce competitors, skilled craftsmens, captains of industry who pursued opportunities no one else saw and envisioned what no one else could ever think of seeing. The United States will harness the unrivaled creativity and speed of our private sector to stride even further into the unknown. This launch also marks an exciting turning point for NASA. This agency will now focus its unmatched expertise like nobody’s ever seen and power and integrity to do what NASA does better than anyone else and it’s not even close. Embark on the most difficult, most daring, most audacious missions in the history of humankind. When I first came into office three and a half years ago, NASA had lost its way and the excitement, energy and ambition as almost everybody in this room knows, was gone. There was grass growing through the cracks of your concrete runways, not a pretty sight, not a pretty sight at all.
The last administration presided over the closing of the Space Shuttle and almost all of the giant facility that keeps so many people working, so many brilliant minds going. People were crying, they were devastated, but now it’s the greatest of its kind anywhere in the world and we’ll get greater and greater with years to come. I promise you that. We have created the envy of the world and will soon be landing on Mars. And we’ll soon have the greatest weapons ever imagined in history. I’ve already seen designs and even I can’t believe it. The United States has regained our place of prestige as the world leader. As has often been stated, you can’t be number one on Earth, if you are number two in space. And we are not going to be number two anywhere. Nowhere is this more true than with our military, which we have completely rebuilt. Under my administration, we have invested two and a half trillion dollars in new planes, ships, submarines, tanks, missiles, rockets, anything you can think of. And last year I signed the law, creating the sixth branch of that already very famous United States Armed Forces, the Space Force.
For every citizen who has eagerly waited for America to reignite those engines of will, confidence and imagination that put a man on the moon, I stand before you to say you need wait no longer. Through NASA’s Artemis program, the United States is preparing for a crude mission to Mars. Earlier this week, I saw the Orion capsules being worked on in this building as part of the Artemis Moon to Mars program. Those capsules will soon return Americans-
Those capsules will soon return Americans to lunar orbit for the first time in over 50 years, half a century. By 2024, our astronauts will return to the lunar surface to establish a permanent presence and the launching pad to Mars. And the first woman on the moon will be an American woman, and the first nation to land on Mars will be the United States of America.
Since I signed the order to establish these goals shortly after taking office, we have made rapid gains. A new 22,000 pound capsule is already built. The next generation of spacesuits are already made. Colossal rockets are now being tested, and the contracts for three separate lunar landers have been awarded and signed, and they are magnificent. In the years ahead, America will go bigger, bolder, further, faster, and America will go first. America will always be first. To be certain, we will meet the adversity and hardship along the way. There may even be tragedy because that is the danger of space. There’s nothing we can do about that. The power that we’re talking about is unrivaled. It’s nothing we can do about problems, but we’ll have very few of them. We will confront all of those challenges, knowing that the quest for understanding is the oldest and deepest hope in our souls.
The innate human desire to explore and innovate is what propels the engines of progress and the march of civilization. We will preserve and persevere, and we will ensure a future of American dominance in space. To that end, over the last three years, I reestablished the National Space Council. I issued a directive cutting red tape for innovative space companies, such as SpaceX. We created the world’s first comprehensive space traffic management system. Last month, I signed an executive order establishing U.S. policy for the recovery and use of space resources and minerals. Administrator Bridenstine announced the Artemis Accords to govern the future of space exploration development. Together, we will assert America’s rightful heritage as the greatest spacefaring nation on the planet. And already it’s not even close. In the half a century since the United States stopped sending astronauts to deep into space, 1972, no other country has ever done it.
The reasons are simple: cost, technological complexity, and tremendous danger. For instance, I was told that the rocket you just witnessed had to be launched within one second, or it would be impossible for it to hit its target. And I was here two days ago, and I said to Jim, "Jim, it’s okay, why don’t you wait five or 10 minutes?" And he said, "Sir, we only have a window of one second." And I walked out of here, shaking my head. "Is that true, Jim?" "Yes, it’s true." Space travel is not a feat of engineering alone. It’s also a moral endeavor, a measure of a nation’s vision, its willpower, its place in the world.
Exploration is a test of our values and of our faith. America is a nation defined by its commitment to discovery, to solve mysteries, to chart the unknown, to press the limits, to achieve the fullest expression of life’s potential and to ensure that America is the nation that always leads the way and especially in space. This evening, I am more confident than ever before that America stands poised to thrive in this grand undertaking. It’s incredible. We are a nation of pioneers. We are the people who crossed the ocean, carved out a foothold on a vast continent, settled a great wilderness, and then set our eyes upon the stars. This is our history and this is our destiny.
Now, like our ancestors before us, we are venturing out to explore a new magnificent frontier. It’s called space. Our most daring feats, our most epic journeys, our biggest adventures, and our finest days are just beginning. America’s proudest moments are still ahead. We are on the verge of our most exciting years, and next year may be the most exciting of all, you just watch. So today as our brave American astronauts shake the earth and blaze a trail of fire and steel into the heavens, we proclaim for all to hear that we have not yet tested the full strength of the American character, and the world has not yet seen the full glory of the American spirit. For our country, for our children, and for humanity’s march into the stars, the best is yet to come.
It was a great honor for me to deliver this speech. God bless our brave astronauts now soaring through the heavens. God bless the men and women of NASA and God bless America. Thank you very much.President Donald Trump: (00:07)
Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Thank you. I’m here today to talk about our relationship with China and several new measures to protect American security and prosperity. China’s pattern of misconduct is well known. For decades, they’ve ripped off the United States, like no one has ever done before. Hundreds of billions of dollars a year were lost dealing with China, especially over the years during the prior administration. China raided our factories, off shored our jobs, gutted our industries, stole our intellectual property and violated their commitments under the World Trade Organization.
To make matters worse, they are considered a developing nation, getting all sorts of benefits that others, including the United States are not entitled to. But I have never solely blamed China for this. They were able to get away with a theft, like no one was able to get away with before because of past politicians and frankly, past presidents.
But unlike those who came before, my administration negotiated and fought for what was right. It’s called fair and reciprocal treatment. China has also unlawfully claimed territory in the Pacific Ocean, threatening freedom of navigation and international trade. And they broke their word to the world on ensuring the autonomy of Hong Kong. The United States wants an open and constructive relationship with China, but achieving that relationship requires us to vigorously defend our national interests.
The Chinese government has continually violated its promises to us and so many other nations. These plain facts can not be overlooked or swept aside. The world is now suffering as a result of the malfeasance of the Chinese government. China’s coverup of the Wu Han virus allowed the disease to spread all over the world, instigating a global pandemic that has cost more than 100,000 American lives and over a million lives worldwide. Chinese officials ignored their reporting obligations to the World Health Organization and pressured the world health organization to mislead the world When the virus was first discovered by Chinese authorities.
Countless lives have been taken and profound economic hardship has been inflicted all around the globe. They strongly recommended against me doing the early ban from China, but I did it anyway, and was proven to be 100% correct. China has total control over the World Health Organization, despite only paying $40 million per year, compared to what the United States has been paying, which is approximately $450 million a year.
We have detailed the reforms that it must make and engage with them directly, but they have refused to act. Because they have failed to make the requested and greatly needed reforms, we will be today terminating our relationship with the World Health Organization and redirecting those funds to other worldwide and deserving urgent global public health needs. The world needs answers from China on the virus. We must have transparency. Why is it that China shut off infected people from Wuhan, to all other parts of China? It went nowhere else. It didn’t go to Beijing. It went nowhere else, but they allowed them to freely travel throughout the world, including Europe and the United States.
The death and destruction caused by this is incalculable. We must have answers not only for us, but for the rest of the world. This pandemic has underscored the crucial importance of building up America’s economic independence, reassuring our critical supply chains and protecting America’s scientific and technological advances. For years, the government of China has conducted elicit espionage to steal our industrial secrets of which there are many. Today I will issue a proclamation to better secure our nation’s vital university research and to suspend the entry of certain foreign nationals from China, who we have identified as potential security risks.
I am also taking action to protect the integrity of America’s financial system, by far the best in the world. I am instructing my presidential working group, One Financial Markets, to study the differing practices of Chinese companies listed on the US financial markets, with the goal of protecting American investors. Investment firms should not be subjecting their clients to the hidden and undue risks associated with financing Chinese companies that do not play by the same rules.
Americans are entitled to fairness and transparency. Several of the most significant actions we’re taking pertain to deeply troubling situations unfolding in Hong Kong. This week, China unilaterally impose control over Hong Kong security. This was a plain violation of Beijing’s treaty obligations with the United Kingdom in the Declaration of 1984 and explicit provisions of Hong Kong’s basic law. It has 27 years to go. The Chinese government’s move against Hong Kong is the latest in a series of measures that are diminishing the city’s longstanding and very proud status. This is a tragedy for the people of Hong Kong, the people of China, and indeed the people of the world.
China claims it is protecting national security, but the truth is that Hong Kong was secure and prosperous as a free society. Beijing’s decision reverses all of that. It extends the reach of China’s invasive state security apparatus into what was formerly a bastion of Liberty. China’s latest incursion, along with other recent developments that degraded the territory’s freedoms, makes clear that Hong Kong is no longer sufficiently autonomous to warrant the special treatment that we have afforded the territory since the handover.
China has replaced its promise formula of one country, two systems, with one country, one system. Therefore, I am directing my administration to begin the process of eliminating policy exemptions that give Hong Kong different and special treatment. My announcement today will affect the full range of agreements we have with Hong Kong, from our extradition treaty to our export controls on dual use technologies and more, with few exceptions. We will be revising the state department’s travel advisory for Hong Kong to reflect the increased danger of surveillance and punishment by the Chinese state security apparatus.
We will take action to revoke Hong Kong’s preferential treatment as a separate customs and travel territory from the rest of China. The United States will also take necessary steps to sanction PRC and Hong Kong officials directly or indirectly involved in eroding Hong Kong’s autonomy and just, if you take a look, smothering, absolutely smothering Hong Kong’s freedom. Our actions will be strong, our actions will be meaningful.
More than two decades ago on a rainy night in 1997, British soldiers lowered the Union flag and Chinese soldiers raised the Chinese flag in Hong Kong. The people of Hong Kong felt simultaneously proud of their Chinese heritage and their unique Hong Kong identity. The people of Hong Kong hoped that in the years and decades to come, China would increasingly come to resemble it’s most radiant and dynamic city. The rest of the world was electrified by a sense of optimism that Hong Kong was a glimpse into China’s future, not that Hong Kong would grow into a reflection of China’s past. In every decision, I will continue to proudly defend and protect the workers, families, and citizens of the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you.
it’s not good. A small handful of powerful social media monopolies controls a vast portion of all public and private communications in the United States, and we know what they are. We don’t have to name them. We’re going to give you a complete listing. We’re going to give you a signed copy of what I’m going to be signing in a couple of minutes, and you’ll see exactly what we’re doing. They’ve had unchecked power to censor, restrict, edit, shape, hide, alter, virtually any form of communication between private citizens or large public audiences. There’s no precedent in American history for a so small a number of corporations to control so large a sphere of human interaction, and that includes individual people controlling vast amounts of territory, and we can’t allow that to happen, especially, when they go about doing what they’re doing, because they’re doing things incorrectly. They have points of view, and if we go by that, it’s actually amazing that there was a success in 2016, but we can’t let this continue to happen.
It’s very, very unfair, and you look at the statistics, and you look at what is going on, and I think everybody would very much agree with that, including Democrats, by the way, I saw quite a few Democrats are saying, this is about time something is done. Let’s see if they keep that decision after they hear that we agree with them. The choices that Twitter makes, what it chooses to suppress, edit, blacklist, shadow, ban are editorial decisions, pure and simple. They’re editorial decisions In those moments Twitter ceases to be a neutral public platform and they become an editor with a viewpoint, and I think we can say that about others also, whether you’re looking at Google, whether you’re looking at Facebook, and perhaps others. One egregious example is when they try to silence views that they disagree with by selectively applying a fact check, F-A-C-T fact check. What they choose to fact check, and what they choose to ignore, or even promote is nothing more than a political activism group or political activism, and it’s inappropriate.
You look at what’s happened, you look at where they’re going, where they’re coming from. I think you all see it yourselves. This censorship and bias is a threat to freedom itself. Imagine if your phone company silenced, or edited your conversation. Social media companies have vastly more power and more reach than any phone company in the United States. More reach actually then your newspapers by far, more reach than a lot of your traditional forms of communication. Therefore, today I’m signing an executive order to protect and uphold the free speech and rights of the American people. Currently social media giants like Twitter receive an unprecedented liability shield based on the theory that they’re a neutral platform, which they’re not, not an editor with a viewpoint. My executive order calls for new regulations under section 230 of the communications decency act to make it that social media companies that engage in censoring, or any political conduct will not be able to keep their liability shield.
That’s a big deal, and they have a shield. They can do what they want. They have a shield. They’re not going to have that shield. My executive order further instructs the federal trade commission, FTC to prohibit social media companies from engaging in any deceptive acts or practices affecting commerce. This authority resides in section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. I think you know it pretty well. Most of you know it very well. I would think you know it quite well, right? Additionally, I’m directing the attorney general to work cooperatively with the states. He’s going to be working very much and very closely in cooperation with the states to enforce their own laws against such deceptive business practices. The states have brought in powerful authority to regulate in this arena, and they’ll be doing it also, and we encourage them to do it. If they see exactly as we’ve been seeing, what they’re doing is tantamount to monopoly.
You can say it’s tantamount to taking over the airwaves. Can’t let it happen. Otherwise, we’re not going to have a democracy. We’re not going to have anything to do with a Republic. Finally, I’m directing my administration to develop policies and procedures to ensure taxpayer dollars are not going in any social media company that repress free speech. The government spends billions of dollars on giving them money. They’re rich enough, so we’re going to be doing none of it or very little of it. As President, I’ll not allow the American people to be bullied by these giant corporations. Many people have wanted this to be done by presidents for a long time, and now we’re doing it, and I’m sure they’ll be doing a lawsuit. And I’m also sure that we’re going to be going for legislation in addition to this, and the legislation will start immediately.
I tell you, I’ve been called by Democrats that want to do this, and so, I think you could possibly have a bipartisan situation, but we’re fed up with it, and it’s unfair, and it’s been very unfair, and we’ll see what happens. Any questions?
Well, if you weren’t fake, I would not even think about I would do that in a heartbeat, but the news is fake. If you look at what gets printed in newspapers, if only the public could understand where they’re reading a story, and they think it’s real, and it’s not real in so many cases, and I’m not saying in every case. You have some great journalists, you have some journalists that I have great respect for, but largely I find at least in a political sense, there’s so much fake news, it’s disgraceful.
I would do that in a heartbeat. If I had fair If we had a fair press in this country, I would do that in a heartbeat. There’s nothing I’d rather do than get rid of my whole Twitter account, but I’m able to get to, I guess, 186 million people. When you add up all the different accounts and add Facebook and Instagram, it’s a lot of people. And that’s more than the media companies have frankly, by a lot. And so if I get a story that’s wrong, I can put a social media, I don’t usually use the word Twitter, I say social media. But I put something out and the next day or the next hour or the next minute everybody’s reading about it. So I’m able to refute fake news and that’s very important. I’d like to ask the attorney general please, to say a couple of words.
And he’s very strongly behind it, backing it very powerfully. And again, we’re going to be doing this. We’re also going through Congress.
Thank you.
I stand before you at this noble fortress of American liberty to pay tribute to the immortal souls who fought and died to keep us free.
Earlier today, the First Lady and I laid a wreath in their sacred honor at Arlington National Cemetery. Now we come together to salute the flag. They gave their lives to so boldly and brilliantly defend. And we pledge in their cherish memories that this majestic flag will proudly fly forever.
We’re joined for today’s ceremony by Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, Secretary of the Interior, David Bernhardt, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, Congressman Andy Harris, and a number of service members and veterans of the Armed Forces.
The dignity, daring, and devotion of the American military is unrivaled anywhere in history and any place in the world.
In recent months, our nation and the world have been engaged in a new form of battle against an invisible enemy. Once more, the men and women of the United States military have answered the call to duty and raced into danger. Tens of thousands of service members and National Guardsmen are on the front lines of our war against this terrible virus, caring for patients, delivering critical supplies, and working night and day to safeguard our citizens.
As one nation, we mourn alongside every single family that has lost loved ones, including the families of our great veterans.
Together we will vanquish the virus, and America will rise from this crisis to new and even greater heights.
As our brave warriors have shown us from the nation’s earliest days, in America, we are the captains of our own fate. No obstacle, no challenge, and no threat is a match for the sheer determination of the American people. This towering spirit permeates every inch of the hollowed soil beneath our feet.
In this place more than 200 years ago, American patriots stood their ground and repelled a British invasion in the Battle of Baltimore during the War of 1812. Early on a September morning in 1814, the British fleet launched an assault on this peninsula. From the Harbor, some 30 British warships attack this stronghold. Rockets rained down, bombs burst in the air, and the deck of one ship, a gallant young American was held captive. His name was Francis Scott Key. For 25 hours, Key watched in dismay as fire crashed down upon this ground. But through torrents of rain and smoke and the den of battle, Key could make out 15 broad stripes and 15 bright stars barraged and battered but still there.
American Forces did not waiver. They did not retreat. They stared down the invasion and they held that they had to endure, the fact is they held like nobody could have held before. They held this fort. The British retreated. Independence was saved. Francis Scott Key was so inspired by the sight of our flag in the battle waged that the very grounds that he fought on became hallowed. And he wrote a poem. His ageless words became the anthem of our nation, The Star Spangled Banner.
Every time we sing our anthem, every time it’s rousing chorus swells our hearts with pride, we renew the eternal bonds of loyalty to our fallen heroes. We think of the soldiers who spend their final heroic moments on distant battlefields to keep us safe at home. We remember the young Americans who never got the chance to grow old but whose legacy will outlive us all. In every generation, these Intrepid souls kiss goodbye to their families and loved ones. They took flight in plane, set sail in ships, and marched into battle with our flag fighting for our country, defending our people.
When the cause of liberty was in jeopardy, American warriors carried that flag through ice and snow to victory at Trenton. They hoisted it up the mass of great battleships in Manila Bay. They fought through hell to raise it high atop a remote Island in the Pacific Ocean called Iwo Jima. From the Philippine Sea to Fallujah, from New Orleans to Normandy, from Saratoga to Sipan, from the Battle of Baltimore to the Battle of the Bulge, Americans gave their lives to carry that flag through piercing waves, blazing fires, sweltering deserts, and storms of bullets and shrapnel. They climbed atop enemy tanks, jumped out of burning airplanes, and leaped on live grenades. Their love was boundless. Their devotion was without limit. Their courage was beyond measure.
Army Green Beret Captain Daniel Eggers grew up in Cape Coral, Florida determined to continue his family tradition of military service. And it was a great tradition. He attended the legendary Citadel Military College in South Carolina. Soon he met a beautiful cadet, Rebecca. They fell in love, married and had two sons. In 2004, Daniel left for his second deployment in Afghanistan. On the morning of May 29th, Daniel and his team were courageously pursuing a group of deadly terrorists when he was killed by an improvised explosive device. This week is the 16th anniversary of the day that Daniel made the supreme sacrifice for our nation. He laid down his life to defeat evil and to save his fellow citizens.
At the time of his death, Daniel sons Billy and John were three and five years old. Today, they have followed in Daniel’s footsteps, both students at the Citadel planning to serve in the military. They’re amazing mom Rebecca has now served more than 23 years in the US Army. Everywhere she goes she wears Daniel’s gold star pin on the lapel of her uniform.
Colonel Rebecca Eggers and her two sons are here today, along with Daniel’s father, Bill, and mother Margot. To the entire Eggers family, your sacrifice is beyond our ability to comprehend to repay. Today, we honor Daniel’s incredible life and exceptional valor, and we promise you that we will treasure his blessed memory forever. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much, please. Thank you. Thank you.
Great family. Thank you very much.
To every gold star family here today and all across our land, our debt to you is infinite and everlasting. We stand with you today and all days to come remembering and grieving for America’s greatest heroes. In spirit and strength, in loyalty and love, in character and courage, they were larger than life itself. They were angels sent from above, and they are now rejoined with God in the glorious kingdom of Heaven.
Wherever the stars and stripes fly at our schools, our churches, town halls, firehouses, and national monuments, it is made possibly because there are extraordinary Americans who are willing to brave death so that we can live in freedom and live in peace.
In the two centuries since Francis Scott Key wrote about the stirring site of our flag in battle, countless other American Patriots have given their own testimony about the meaning of the flag.
One was World War II veteran, Jim Krebs from Sunbury, Ohio. Jim and his twin brother Jack fought side by side in General Patton’s Third Army. At the Battle of the Bulge, the twins volunteered for a dangerous mission. Together they took out four enemy tanks, two machine gun nests at a mother position that was very powerful. Loaded up with mortars, Jim’s brother Jack was mortally wounded. Jim held his dying brother in his arms, praying together as his twin passed away. Jim fought to victory and came home to build a great American life.
He married, had children, became an electrical engineer, and taught young people about war. As an old man, Jim was asked, what about the American flag and what it meant to him? Jim said, "The flag to me is as precious as the freedom that the flag stands for. It’s as precious to me as the thousands of lives that have been lost defending her. It’s that important to me. It gave me a value of life that I could have never gotten any other way. It gave me a value of my Lord, my family, my friends, loved ones, and especially my country. What more could I ask?"
Last month, Jim died peacefully at his home at the age of 94. This afternoon we are greatly honored to be joined by his grandsons, Andy and Ron. Please, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for being here.
Today as we remember the sacrifice of Jim’s brother Jack, we honor Jim service and we’re moved by his beautiful words. Andy and Ron, thank you for being here to remember your grandfather and his brother and what they did for us all. And most importantly, what they stood for,
From generation to generation, heroes like these have poured out their blood and sweat and heart and tears for our country. Because of them, America is strong and safe and mighty and free. Because of them, two centuries on The Star Spangled Banner still proudly waves. For as long as our flag flies in the sky above, the names of these fallen warriors will be woven into its threads. For as long as we have citizens willing to follow their example, to carry on their burden, to continue their legacy, then America’s cause will never fail and American freedom will never ever die.
Today we honor the heroes we have lost. We pray for the loved ones they left behind, and with God is our witness, we solemnly vowed to protect, preserve, and cherish this land they gave their last breath to defend and to defend so proudly. Thank you. God bless our military. God bless the memory of the fallen. God bless our gold star families, and God bless America. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Thank you, right down the road. It’s an honor to have Bill with us. Thank you very much. And I’m thrilled to be back in Michigan. We’ve done a lot of work in Michigan. A lot of plants are opening. A lot of plants stopped We stopped them from closing and we kept your workers here in Michigan and in the United States, different places as you know, all over the United States, but it’s an honor to do.
It’s one of the reasons I’m standing here. In fact years ago, I was honored long before I ever thought of the presidential situation. I was honored in Michigan and I said, "How come you’re losing so much of your car business to Mexico and other places?" And I asked that question very innocently. It was probably 10 years ago. The man of the year, they named me man of the year in Michigan. And I said, "What’s going on in Michigan?" And we’ve stopped it. And thanks to a lot of great companies like Ford, a lot of things are happening here. And it’s why I’m so honored when Bill mentioned the plant that you’re going to be doing 2,000 and it’s also a great success, the Broncos. So that’s really, really big news. Thank you very much. Thank you.
I’m honored to stand on a factory floor operated by the incredible workers of Ford Motor Company. You really are tremendously talented people. I know it. I’m not sure everybody in the world knows it, but a lot of people do. And they’re all going to know it after this speech, but you are really talented, great people. Thank you very much for doing a great job.
We know what it takes. Few people have that ability, a few. In our nation’s war against the invisible enemy, the hardworking patriots here today answered the call to serve. You prove that the American worker is built Ford and you are built for tough, a great expression. You still use that expression, I think Bill, right? That’s a great expression.
Let’s see. Can I use it for maybe myself, built Trump tough. I don’t know. They may say that’s a takeoff. That’s no good. You can’t do that. And you’ve made really America proud and you’ve made Ford proud. And America is very proud of Ford right here at the Roseville component plant. You’re building a great medical arsenal to defeat the virus and cement America’s place as the leading manufacturer and exporter of ventilators, anywhere in the world. We’re now getting calls from other countries, many other countries, both friend and foe, believe it or not.
We get calls from foe and we want to help them out too. And we’re making thousands and thousands of ventilators. And I think we really sort of started right over here. We got a call very early on from Bill and the group, and this is incredible what’s happened and what you’ve done. With your help, not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator, not one. And as you remember, we took over empty cupboards. The cupboards were bare and we got into the business of ventilators and testing and all of these other things. Now we’ve done 14 million tests. The second country is at 3 million and less than 3 million, Germany, South Korea. And they’ve done a good job, but we’re at 14 million tests and the tests are the best of all. But on behalf of our entire nation, I want to say thank you very much.
Thank you very much for doing a great job. Driven by the love and sweat and devotion of everyone here today, we’re saving lives. We’re forging ahead. And as of this week, the beating heart of the American auto industry is back open for business. That started right away. Didn’t it? It starts right now. And you have all those supply chains coming in. They’re going to come through because if they don’t come through, just build a product right here. Okay. Because you know, that can happen too.
But we heard that. It’s a big story that we’re starting with the cars now, and it’s going to be a big success. In addition to many wonderful UAW workers, we’re joined by Secretary Ben Carson, who’s done a fantastic job. Where’s Ben? Ben is here. Thank you, Ben. Where is he? Oh, there he is. Hi Ben. Thank you, Ben. Thank you. And Amanda has done a fantastic job for Ford. Although, I’ll ask Bill about this later. I’ll just find out, I want to make sure for myself, but I know based on results, I know. CEO Jim Hackett. Jim, thank you very much. The word is yes, Jim, the word is great job. Great job.
Plant manager, Angela Weathers. Angela, thank you very much. That’s a big job. That’s a big job. You enjoy it? Yeah. Great job. Fantastic. It’s a big deal. And GE Healthcare US ana Canada president Everett Cunningham. Thank you, Everett. Thank you Everett.
Before going further, let us send our love to all of the families that have been displaced by the flooding near Midland. I spoke to your governor this morning and we’ve sent some tremendously talented people out here. We have FEMA and we have the Army Corps of engineers and they can do things that frankly nobody else can do. The Army Corps of engineers, what they do. So they’re very good at rebuilding dams that are busted or blown up or for whatever reason bad things happen. But Americans are praying for central Michigan. We’re going to take care of your problem. The governor and I had a great conversation this morning. And at the appropriate time, I’ll go and see the area that we’ll be fixing. We’re going to help you out. We signed a emergency declaration very quickly, very, very quickly. And we’re going to help you out very quickly also.
In recent months, this state and this country have faced great challenges. Here in the Detroit area, you were hit hard by the virus. Very, very hard in this area. As one people, we hold in our hearts the precious memory of every person that we have lost and we’ve lost too many. One is too many. We lost too many. It came in from China and it should have been stopped in China. They didn’t stop it. They should’ve stopped it. And as one grateful nation we proclaim God bless our healthcare workers. They’ve done an incredible job. They like warriors. They’re like warriors. I want to thank all of the nurses and doctors.
Because of the virus, Ford was forced to stop automobile production for the first time since World War Two. That’s something, but you did not despair. Your company leadership called up the White House and asked the most American of all questions, how can we help? True. I said, "That’s nice. That’s very nice." Every one of the workers in this project volunteered to take part in the greatest industrialization and mobilization project that our society has done, the American people have done in our lifetimes. The company founded by a man named Henry Ford. Good bloodlines, good blood lines. If you believe in that stuff, you get good blood. They teamed up with the company founded by Thomas Edison. That’s General Electric. That’s good stuff. That’s good stuff. And you put it all together. That they’re all looking down right now. And they’d be very proud of what they see. You began the production of 50,000 lifesaving ventilators. A number that if you go back just two months, I would say most people would say it would be impossible to believe. The media is back there. And they would have said a couple of months ago, the creation of that many ventilators would have been not a possible thing.
Every single one of these ventilators is made in the USA with American heart, American hands, and American pride. Just as your great grandparents produced more than one Model T every minute, just as your grandmothers and grandfathers produced a B24, you did the B24 bombers. I saw pictures in the back. That was quite a weapon. That was quite an incredible weapon, B24 bomber.
And just as a Ford F150 normally drives off the line every 52 seconds, you quickly mastered this complex new machine of ventilators. They’re a very complicated, delicate, big, expensive machine. One month ago, Ford had never built a single ventilator. And now you’re a world leader. That’s not bad. You adopted the designs of a company that was building just 10 a week, but a very high quality ventilator. And very soon you’ll be producing one new ventilator every single minute. It’s an absolute amazing achievement. And you’re really helping now beyond the country. You’re helping other countries throughout the world. We have 188 countries that are fighting this terrible enemy and ventilators is something they could never You could do cotton swabs. You can do all of the things, you could even do testing, but ventilators are a whole different lot. It’s very tough. Great job.
different lot. It’s very tough. Great job. Thanks to you, we’ll stockpile over 100,000 new ventilators in the next few months, and have offered over 14,000 to friends and allies all around the world, and they desperately need them. Just this week, I spoke to five countries. They called me. Is it possible to get ventilators to them, and I’m sending them over. I want to recognize just a few of the exceptional Americans who made this historic feat possible. Keith Pastorino is an electrician here in Rawsonville. Keith, please tell us what you’ve done. How you like it. Come on up. Let’s see Keith. Oh, look at Keith. Thank you Keith. Love to grab him and shake his hand, but I guess we can’t do that, can you.
Thank you very much Keith. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. Great people. We’re also joined by Gary Brabant, a quality technician. Gary come on up, Gary. Thanks Gary.
Thank you very much. Thank you Gary. Thank you, Gary, very much. With us as well is Adrian Price, who has helped lead this effort as one of Ford’s top engineers, highly respected. Come on up please Adrian.
Thank you. Thank you.
I bought plenty of them. I bought plenty of them. Thank you Adrian. Yep. I have a lot of those Lincolns. That’s great. Thank you very much. The global pandemic has proven once and for all that to be a strong nation America must be a manufacturing nation. We are bringing it back, 600,000 jobs. Previous administration said, "Manufacturing jobs, we’re not doing that. It’s gone from this country." They were wrong. Six hundred thousand jobs until we had to turn it off, and now we’re going to turn it back on like never before. You’ll see numbers that you didn’t even see the last time. We’re going to rebuild it quickly. It’s going to happen very quickly. We’re already seeing indications of that. Larry Kudlow gave some numbers that were really inspiring this morning, based on what we’re hearing and seeing.
True national independence requires economic independence from day one. I’ve been fighting to bring back our jobs from China, and many other countries. Today I’m declaring a simple but vital national goal. The United States will be the world’s premier pharmacy, drug store, and medical manufacturer. We’re bringing our medicines back, and many other things too. We must produce critical equipment, supplies, pharmaceuticals, technologies, for ourselves. We cannot rely on foreign nations to take care of us, especially in times of difficulty. In previous decades, politicians shipped away our jobs, outsourced our supply chains, and offshored our industries. They sent them abroad. We’re bringing them back, and we’ve been doing that long before this crisis. We’re bringing them back. That’s why we have so many plants being built all over the United States that make a beautiful product called cars. Bringing them back. You see it. I told Prime Minister Abe of Japan, " Shinzo, you got to get them back." We have many Japanese companies now building car companies here. I said, "You’ve got to bring them back." We’ve had deficits with all of these countries for years, and years, and years. They were ripping us left and right. We had no idea. We had no leader that understood what the hell was happening, but now you do.
I said, "You got to bring them back." We made a great deal with South Korea. We made a great deal with Japan. We have $40 billion dollars Japan is putting into the United States, not to mention all of the plants that they’re building. The South Korea deal was a terrible deal, and we made it good. Hillary Clinton actually made that deal. She said, "It’s going to produce 250,000 jobs," and she was right. It produced 250,000 jobs for South Korea, not for us. Wasn’t too good was it? But we are bringing it all back to our country, and it started long before this happened. Maybe that’s one of the reasons this happened. Maybe people weren’t so thrilled with what was going on. But we had the greatest year in the history of our country, and have it again very soon.
In this administration, we know that it matters where someone works on something, and where something is made. As we’ve seen today, companies like your great Ford, and workers like you are a national treasure. I consider Ford to be a national treasure. I consider you to be a national treasure, the talent, because that talent, and culture, and commitment to winning, are irreplaceable. Your patriotism can not be outsourced. Your 117 years of incredible manufacturing heritage cannot be replicated anywhere else in the world. The talent, I see the talent. I know what talent is. I understand your world, and I understand your business. That’s why in my administration, we live by two simple rules, buy American and hire American.
Buy American and hire American. And we have another rule that you may have heard on occasion. It’s called America first. We didn’t have America first. We had America last under previous presidents. They were more concerned with the world than they were concerned with their own country. My first week in office, I withdrew from the job wrecking Trans Pacific Partnership, which would have destroyed the auto industry. I never asked you about that bill. I mean, I think you agree. Oh, you do? Would you please stand up and just not that you agree? Your industry bill would have been destroyed had that deal gone through and not only yours by the way, but other countries would have been very happy. So I don’t know. I don’t know how to hell these unions aren’t endorsing Trump instead of the standard Democrat. A Democrat that doesn’t even know where he is.
We renegotiated the catastrophic deal with South Korea to preserve the protective tariff on foreign made pickup trucks. The Chicken Tax, they call it, right? You know what the Chicken Tax is? Most profitable thing you have. You know why? Because of the Chicken Tax that was expiring a year ago, and I got it extended. Because of that tax, it’s one of the most profitable products. You live for that product, right? I kept my promise to replace the NAFTA disaster with a brand new USMCA, which is a fantastic deal for our country. Tough new requirements under the USMCA ensure more cars to be built in American plants by American labor and even labor endorsed it. But the big thing is you’re losing all your car industry. You weren’t going to have a car industry left.
Now people aren’t going to be moving back to Mexico. They’re not going to be moving back and you’re going to have it the other way. At the same time we preserve our relationship. Mexico’s actually been very nice. Our border is the strongest it’s ever been. We’re up to over 200 miles at brand new, beautiful border wall. And that 200 miles is pristine. Nobody comes through. This is a serious wall. It’s a serious wall. And it’s incredible what we’ve done there, too. We had among the best months we’ve ever had. And now when somebody comes across, we bring them back. We don’t go through five years of litigation in the other days or the older days. Not so long ago, if they stepped a foot into our country, you had to be Perry Mason. You end up in a court case and it took years. You’d release them into the country by law. And then you say, "Come back in five years for your trial." And only the very stupid people came back. About 2%. They didn’t come back. Why should they come back? They were released into our country. We don’t do that. We don’t do that. And we want people coming into our country, but we want them to come in through merit and we want them to come in legally. It’s very important. I’ll continue to fight for US auto workers as we rebuild our economic strength. Our strategy for a phased and responsible reopening protects those lives, those American lives, those high risk American lives from the virus while allowing those at Loris, such as young, healthy people, where they just have a much, much lower risk. We’ve learned a lot. You’re a certain age, you have a problem with diabetes, or you have a problem with your heart, you’re a prime suspect for this horrible disease. It’s a terrible thing.
So we’ve learned that young people do very well. Very well, incredibly well. Older people, especially older people that have problems, they don’t do well at all. So we have to protect those people and we want to get everybody now safely back to work. And we’re going to do that. I spoke today about our churches. Our churches have closed. And I said to CDC, I had a great conversation. I said, "Our people want to go back to church on Sundays. And our churches want to take care of their parishioners, their people that go to worship." And a you’re going to see something come out very soon about opening up our churches.
A permanent lockdown is not a strategy for a healthy state or a healthy country. Our country wasn’t meant to be shut down. We did the right thing, but now it’s time to open it up. A never ending lock down would invite a public health calamity. To protect the health of our people, we must have a functioning economy. And as I said, and I’ll say it a hundred times, we’re going to have an incredible year next year, right at the beginning, even our fourth quarter is going to be very good. There’s a tremendous pent up demand. That includes for your cars. Americans who need and want to return to work should not be vilified. They should be supported unlike many politicians and journalists. For those who earn a living with their own two hands, working remotely is just not an option. You don’t have the option of doing that.
Our plan emphasizes safety and protection for returning employees. I want to commend Ford along with General Motors, General Electric, Fiat Chrysler, and so many other companies. A lot of them in this area for blazing, a trail to safely restart America’s economic engines. You are demonstrating that we can open our country while taking precautions like social distancing, daily medical screenings, strict hygiene. You can get tremendous numbers of very quick temperature checks. Whoever heard they aim a camera right there and two seconds later, they tell you your temperature. More accurately than the old days where you put it under your tongue for two and a half minutes. This is a little better. But you get temperature checks.
And I want to thank you all for leading America back to work. You look at states like Florida, Georgia, and many others where the numbers have actually gone down. They’re open, but their numbers are going down and very substantially down. With your help and our policies, this country is poised for an epic comeback. This is going to be an incredible comeback. Watch, it’s already happening. Within the next year, we are going to be exceeding any expectation and I’ve had a good gut feeling about a lot of things, including running for president. I said, "I think I could win." And I guess I was right. Everyone here today, and by the way, I think we’re going to do better the second time. And it’s very important that we win the second time or everything that we’ve done, including manufacturing, jobs, all this is going to be not in a very good position.
Everyone here today is the heir to a majestic and noble tradition. You walk in the footsteps of those who built the Motor City in the 1920s and thirties, who stocked the arsenal of democracy in the 1940s, and who set the standard for automotive safety and style in the 1950s and sixties and beyond. And even today, Bill was showing me some of those cars, it’s a credible. I wanted to buy one, then I heard the price. I said, "Forget it." I said, "I’ll use one on occasion, right?" But what a car that is, huh? What a car.
Our friends and allies marveled at these triumphs of American industry and our enemies learned that nothing can stop the strength and power and grit of the American worker, nothing. Just like generations of Michigan manufacturers before you, each of you has done your best for America in its time of need. You love your country. You love your country so much. Now you have a critical role to play in forging a new legacy of American greatness that will inspire and endure for generations to come. It’s a very important time in our country’s history and our country’s life. Because of you, the Ford name will forever stand as a symbol of American excellence, innovation, quality, and craftsmanship. And because of you, America will be strong and healthy and prosperous and free for many, many decades to come.
I want to say very powerfully, very strongly, God bless you all. God bless America. I’m proud to be here. I’m proud to be with Ford. Bill, thank you very much. Everyone, thank you very much. We’ll be back. We’ll see you a lot. Good luck. John James, thank you for being here. We’re going to have a great Senator, John James. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you.
And a lot of good things have come out about the hydroxy. A lot of good things have come out. And you’d be surprised at how many people are taking it, especially the frontline workers, before you catch it. The frontline workers, many, many are taking it. I happen to be taking it. I happen to be taking it.
I’m taking it, hydroxychloroquine. Right now. Yeah. Couple of weeks ago I started taking it. Because I think it’s good. I’ve heard a lot of good stories. And if it’s not good, I’ll tell you right. I’m not going to get hurt by it. It’s been around for 40 years for malaria, for lupus, for other things. I’d take it. Frontline workers take it. A lot of doctors take it. Excuse me. A lot of doctors take it. I take it. Now, I hope to not be able to take it soon because I hope they come up with some answer. But I think people should be allowed to. I got a letter from a doctor the other day from Westchester, New York, around the area. He didn’t want anything. He just said, "Sir, I have hundreds of patients and I give them hydroxychloroquine. I give them the Z-Pak, which is azithromycin. And I give them zinc. And out of the hundreds of patients, many hundreds, over 300 patients, I haven’t lost one." He said, "Please keep pressing that, sir."
And if you look at that phony report that was put in, that report on the hydroxy was given to people that were in extraordinarily bad condition, extraordinary bad. People that were dying. No, I think for whatever it’s worth, I take it. I would have told you that three, four days ago, but we never had a chance because you never asked me the question.
Yeah, White House doctor. He didn’t recommend it. No, I asked him, "What do you think?" He said, "Well, if you’d like it." I said, "Yeah, I’d like it. I’d like to take it." A lot of people are taking it. A lot of frontline workers are taking hydroxychloroquine. I don’t take it because hey, people said, "Oh, maybe he owns the company." No, I don’t own the company. You know what? I want the people of this nation to feel good. I don’t want them being sick. And there’s a very good chance that this has an impact, especially early on. But you look at frontline workers, you look at doctors and nurses, a lot of them are taking it as a preventative. And they’re taking, totally unrelated, but they take the Z-Pak or the azithromycin for possible infection. Now, I haven’t taken that other than an original dose because all you need, you don’t have to take it simultaneously. But the zinc, you do take. So I’m taking the two, the zinc and the hydroxy. And all I can tell you is so far, I seem to be okay.
No. No, not at all. I just said that I’ve had so many letters from people like the one I told you about, I got it last week. Would you like a copy of it? I’d love to give you  If you ask Molly, she’ll give you a copy of it. But this is a doctor. He doesn’t want anything. I don’t know him, never heard of him. But he treats people that we’re talking about. And he said out of hundreds of people that he’s treated, he hasn’t lost one. And he just wanted me to know about it. That’s all. He wasn’t saying, "Gee, can I have dinner with you, Mr. President? I’d like to come to the White House."
But I’ve received many such letters. I’ve received a lot of positive letters. And it seems to have an impact. And maybe it does, maybe it doesn’t. But if it doesn’t, you’re not going to get sick or die. This is a pill that’s been used for a long time, for 30, 40 years on the malaria and on lupus too. And even on arthritis, I guess, from what I understand. So it’s been heavily tested in terms of  I was just waiting to see your eyes light up when I said this, when I announced this, but I’ve taken it for about a week and a half now and I’m still here. I’m still here.
Here we go, you ready? Here’s my evidence. I get a lot of positive calls about it. The only negative I’ve heard was the study where they gave it, was it the VA? With people that aren’t big Trump fans gave it. And we’ve done the greatest job, maybe of anything in the VA, because I got VA Choice and VA Accountability both approved. Accountability, Tillman, is where you can fire bad people that work in the VA that you couldn’t fire them. We had thousands of people that were sadists, that were stealing, that were robbers, that were horrible people. They’d beat up our veterans. They couldn’t do it in primetime, but they did it when they were sick. And we got accountability. Nobody thought you could get it because of the unions and civil service. I got it passed so that now you fire bad people in the VA. We got rid of tremendously bad people that should never been there.
But I also got, probably even more importantly, if you can say that, maybe not, VA Choice. So if you have to wait on line for a doctor, you go outside, you have a private doctor, we pay the bill. We work out deals with doctors. We have pricing. So you go out and you pay the bill. And it was a great thing that we did. So we’ve done a great job with the VA, but they had a report come out. And the results of the report, it was very unscientific report by the way.
But I get a lot of tremendously positive news on the hydroxy. And I say, "Hey, you know the expression I’ve used, John? What do you have to lose?" Okay, what do you have to lose? So I have been taking it for about a week and a half.
Every day, I take a pill every day. At some point, I’ll stop. What I’d like to do is I’d like to have the cure or the vaccine and that’ll happen, I think, very soon.
Zero symptoms. No, I haven’t had any. No, I tested. I test every couple of days, they want to test me, for obvious reasons. I mean, I am the President. So they want to test me. I don’t want to be tested, but they want to test me. So every couple of days I get tested. And I’ve shown always negative, right? Negative. Is that the term you use for this? Right? Negative. Totally negative. No symptoms, no nothing. But no, I take it because I think I hear very good things. Again, you have to go to frontline workers. Many frontline workers take it and they seem to be doing very well.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It’s very hot today. Please sit down. This is going to be a very hot one and we apologize to everybody out there that’s got to suffer through it. But you know what? It’s better than bad weather and it’s great to be in the rose garden. I want to especially thank this group for joining us as we announce a historic groundbreaking initiative in our ongoing effort to rapidly develop and manufacture a coronavirus vaccine. We’re joined by secretary Steven Mnuchin, Secretary Mark Esper, Secretary Alex Azar, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, FDA Director, Dr. Stephen Hahn, Director of the National Institute of Health, Dr. Francis Collins, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Birx. We’re joined by a very terrific group of professionals.
Tomorrow will mark 30 days since we released the White House guidelines for a safe and phased opening of America. That’s what we’re doing. It’s the opening of America. We’re going to have an amazing year next year. We’re going to have a great transition into the fourth quarter. As of this morning, almost every state has taken steps to begin reopening and the American people are doing an extraordinary job of continuing to take precautions while at the same time wanting to start, and they will be starting, to resume their American way of life. We will be reigniting our economic engines. We’re going to be taking care of our most vulnerable, which are our senior citizens and some others. We’re going to be working very, very hard on our senior citizens and our nursing homes and various communities to support those that are struggling in this very difficult time. Others don’t have the same kind of struggle.
For example, today, Secretary Perdue, together with Ivanka Trump, launched the Farmers and Families Food Box Program, which will provide $3 billion to help small farmers. And it will be helping farmers, ranchers, but it’ll be bringing food to some of the food lines and some of the food kitchens that you’ve been seeing on television. And I said, "Why aren’t we doing that? We have all of this tremendous food produced by our farmers and our ranchers." And so we’re going to be buying $3 billion worth of that food, great for everybody. Our farmers, our ranchers, and the people that need great food.
A key feature of our reopening plan is the largest and most ambitious testing system in the world by far. America is now conducting close to 350,000 tests per day, an unthinkable number just a short while ago, more than anybody in the world by far, suggesting many states now have excess testing capacity to monitor for new outbreaks. Florida, many other states have so much testing the testers are waiting for people to show up. It’s great.
Another essential pillar of our strategy to keep America open is the development of effective treatments and vaccines as quickly as possible. Want to see if we can do that very quickly. We’re looking to, when I say quickly, we’re looking to get it by the end of the year if we can, maybe before. We’re doing tremendously well. From the earliest days of the pandemic, we have marshaled the genius of American scientists and researchers from all across government and the private sector, from academia, from everywhere to vanquish the virus, and tremendous strides have been made. Can tell you, I get to see it every day. Tremendous strides are being made. Scientists at the NIH began developing the first vaccine candidate on January 11th, think of that, within hours of the virus’s genetic code being posted online. So January 11th, most people never even heard what was going on January 11th. And we were out there trying to develop a vaccine, not even knowing what we were up against. Then my administration cut through every piece of red tape to achieve the fastest ever, by far, launch of a vaccine trial for this new virus, this very vicious virus. And I want to thank all of the doctors and scientists and researchers involved because they’ve never moved like this or never even close.
The NIH and the HHS have also been working constantly with private industry to evaluate more than 100 potential treatments. The Food and Drug Administration has swiftly approved more than 130 therapies for active trials. That’s what we have right now, 130. And another 450 are in the planning stages and tremendous potential awaits. I think we’re going to have some very interesting things to report in the not too distant future. And thank you very much to Dr. Hahn. Through a historic series of funding bills, my administration is providing roughly $10 billion to support a medical research effort without parallel. I especially want to thank Senator Steve Daines of Montana for his incredible work. He has worked so hard to secure additional funding for vaccine development. He has been right at the forefront.
Today, I want to update you on the next stage of this momentous medical initiative. It’s called Operation Warp Speed. That means big and it means fast, a massive scientific, industrial and logistical endeavor unlike anything our country has seen since the Manhattan Project. You really could say that nobody’s seen anything like we’re doing, whether it’s ventilators or testing. Nobody’s seen anything like we’re doing now within our country since the second World War, incredible. Its objective is to finish developing and then to manufacture and distribute a proven coronavirus vaccine as fast as possible. Again, we’d love to see if we could do it prior to the end of the year. We think we’re going to have some very good results coming out very quickly.
In addition, it will continue accelerating the development of diagnostics and breakthrough therapies. The great national project will bring together the best of American industry and innovation, the full resources of the United States government, and the excellence and precision of the United States military. We have the military totally involved. We’re also working very strongly with other countries who are also have some great, great scientists, doctors, and we’re all working very closely together and they’re viewing us as the leader and we are. The relationship with other countries on solving this problem has been incredible. Today, the Operation Warp Speed has brought together all of the experts across the federal government from places like the NIH, CDC, FDA, and many other agencies. This historic partnership will now bring together the full resources of the Department of Health and Human Services with the Department of Defense. And we know what that means. That means the full power and strength of military, the military, and that really talking about the logistics. We get it when we get it. That means the logistics, getting it out so that everybody can take it.
And today, we’re proud to announce the addition of two of the most highly respected skilled professionals in our country, worldwide respected. Operation Warp Speed’s chief scientists will be Dr. Moncef Slaoui, a world renowned immunologist who helped create 14 new vaccines, that’s a lot of our new vaccines, in 10 years during his time in the private sector. One of the most respected men in the world in the production and, really, on the formulation of vaccines. Joining Dr. Slaoui as Chief Operating Officer will be General Gus Perna, a four star general who currently oversees 190,000 service members, civilians, and contractors as Commander of the US Army Material Command. That means logistics. That means getting it out. We’ve got to get it out there. So General, thank you very much. And doctor, thank you very much. It’s great to have you on board. Really highly respected people. Thank you.
It’s great to have you on board. Really highly respected people. Thank you.
These two outstanding individuals will provide more details following my remarks. In preparation for this initiative, experts throughout the government have been collaborating to evaluate roughly 100 vaccine candidates from all over the world. They have identified 14 that they believe are the most promising and they’re working to narrow that list still further. So we started off with over 100, we’re down to 14, and we have some really interesting choices to be made. They’re doing very well.
Through Operation Warp Speed, the federal government is providing unprecedented support and resources to safely expedite the trials. Moving on at record, record, record speed. While we accelerate the final phases of vaccine trials, Operation Warp Speed will be simultaneously accelerating its manufacturing and manufacturing process. In other words, we’re getting ready so that when we get the good word that we have the vaccine, we have the formula, we have what we need, we’re ready to go. As opposed to taking years to gear up. We’re gearing up. It’s risky, it’s expensive, but we’ll be saving massive amounts of time. We’ll be saving years if we do this properly. And that’s what we’re doing. So we’re gearing up on the assumption that we’ll have in the near future, relatively near future, a vaccine.
Typically pharmaceutical companies wait to manufacture a vaccine until it has received all of the regulatory approvals necessary. And this can delay vaccines availability to the public as much as a year, and even more than that. However, our task is so urgent that under Operation Warp Speed, the federal government will invest in manufacturing all of the top vaccine candidates before they’re approved. So we’re knowing exactly what we’re doing before they’re approved. That means they better come up with a good vaccine, because we’re ready to deliver it. This will eliminate any unnecessary delay and enable us to begin providing Americans with a proven vaccine the day our scientists say, "We’re ready, we got it."
And as we work to bring critical medical production back to America, these vaccines that we’re going to be focused on and manufacturing, they’re all going to be right here in the USA. Now we’re working, as I said, with other people outside, and that’s fine too. We want to get to the solution. We know exactly where the other countries are and we’ll be very happy if they were able to do it. We’ll help them with delivery, we’ll help them with it in every way we can. We have no ego when it comes to this. No ego whatsoever. Operation Warp Speed is also making the necessary preparations to distribute these life saving treatments at scale. So we’re talking about massive numbers so that millions of Americans will quickly have access to them. This includes ramping up production of supplies needed for distribution. And I have to say, we’re also very, very much involved in other things other than the vaccine. If you take a look at what we’re doing beyond vaccines, it’s going to be very interesting. We may talk about that in a little while. But this includes ramping up production of supplies needed for distribution, such as cold chain storage, glass vials, needles, syringes, and more. We’ll have everything right on hand, ready to go.
When a vaccine is ready, the US government will deploy every plane, truck and soldier required to help distribute it to the American people as quickly as possible. America’s blessed to have the most brilliant, talented doctors and researchers anywhere in the world. We have the mightiest military by far in the world. Our military is completely rebuilt. Much of the equipment has been delivered. Some of it’s on the way. All made right here in the USA. We took over very, very empty cupboards, I say, medically. We also had empty cupboards in a military sense. Our military was in sad shape. It was depleted. We now have the strongest military the United States has ever had by far, and the best equipment. And you hear that outside, that beautiful sound, those are truckers that are with us all the way. They’re protesting in favor of President Trump, as opposed to against. There’s hundreds of trucks out there. And that’s the sign of love, not the sign of your typical protest. So I want to thank our great truckers. They like me and I like them. We’re working on something together.
But we have the mightiest And they’ll be helping us with this, by the way. Speaking of truckers. We have the mightiest military in the long history of humankind. We have the best and most devoted workers ever to walk the face of the earth. And now we’re combining all of these amazing strengths for the most aggressive vaccine project in history. There’s never been a vaccine project anywhere in history like this. And I just want to make something clear. It’s very important, vaccine or no vaccine, we’re back. And we’re starting the process. And in many cases they don’t have vaccines and a virus or a flu comes and you fight through it. We haven’t seen anything like this in 100 and some odd years, 1917, but you fight through it. And people sometimes, I guess, we don’t know exactly yet, but it looks like they become immune or at least for a short while and maybe for life. But you fight through it. But what we’d like to do, if we can, is the vaccine. And I think we’re going to be successful in doing it, and hopefully by the end of the year.
Just as generations of Americans before us faced down the most difficult trials, set their sights on the highest summit and overcame the biggest obstacles, america will meet the moment, and this moment specifically in our time, with unrivaled speed, unmatched scale, and the unyielding spirit of the American people. Our nation will come back stronger and greater than ever. We’re going to have a tremendous year next year. We’re going to have a really good fourth quarter. We’re going to have a very interesting and productive transition quarter, where Steve is there, And I’m sure our Secretary of the Treasury, I think you feel the same way, Steve. And thank you for your good work. Really good work. And it’s not finished yet, is it? I want to thank Steve Mnuchin, everybody.
Now I’d like to ask Dr. and General Perna to come up and say a few words, followed by Secretary Azar and Secretary Esper. Thank you all very much. We’re doing something that has never been done before. It’s a going to result in a tremendous end. I think we’re going to come up with a solution to a problem like this country probably has never seen before. But it’s an honor to be your president. We’re doing a great job. These people are doing an incredible job. The people right here, I want to thank you all. Total professionals. Great men, great women. Thank you all very much. Please.
Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Excuse me, you’re going to have to remove it. You can’t hear through your
No, we’re looking for a full vaccine for everyone that wants to get it. Not everybody’s going to want to get it, but we’re looking at a full vaccine. Is that a correct statement?
We’ve all been tested. I’ve been tested. We’ve all been tested and we’re quite a distance away and we’re outdoor. So I told them, I gave them the option. They could wear it or not. So you can blame it on me, but I gave them the option. We could wear it or not. Yeah, please.
The last thing anybody’s looking for is profit in terms of what we’re doing. Every company, they want to get it out. We’ve had a great experience. We’ve had a great experience on everything we’ve done. People are looking to come up with the answer. They’re not looking in  Typically they’re saying, "How much am I going to make? How much?" They really have been, there’s been a great spirit on this. They want to get to the bottom of it. And I think we’ll be able to do that.
So, India has been so great. And as you know, your prime minister has been a very good friend of mine. I just got back a short while ago from India recently, and we’re working very much with India too. We have a tremendous Indian population in the United States. Many of the people that you’re talking about are working on the vaccine too, great scientists and researchers. Yeah. We’re working very closely also with India. Correct. And say hello to your prime minister. Yeah, please. Go ahead.
Yeah, I think we’ve done a good job with that. Certain areas have been hit very hard, New York, New Jersey, et cetera, et cetera, working very closely with the governors. We’ve worked with all of the governors. We’ve made a lot of people look very good with what we’ve done on ventilators, with what we’ve done on testing. We’re working with all of the governors. We just sent a big transit package to New Jersey. I just spoke to the governor of New Jersey, who is a terrific person, by the way, I have to tell you. And I just told him, "A lot of money’s coming way for the transit." And also I spoke with the governor of New York, Governor Cuomo. We just had a conversation yesterday. We’re sending them a lot of transportation money. So it’s important. But we’ve had a very good relationship working with all of the states, regardless. All of the states. And if we do get fortunate enough, and I think we’re skilled enough, but fortunate enough to have a vaccine, it’ll get out fairly and quickly.
I think that makes sense, perhaps. Perhaps it does, but I would say probably, but I think they’re all going to get well distributed. If you remember where we started, we had no ventilators. We had to make them and we became a very major manufacturer of ventilators. Now we’re helping countries all over the world with ventilators. We’re sending them to many countries all over the world. When we started, we didn’t have ventilators. I inherited nothing. I inherited practically nothing from the previous administration, unfortunately. Yeah, go ahead.
Well, I don’t want to talk about it. I can say China is buying a lot of our product, but the trade deal, the ink was barely dry when this came in from China. So it’s not like we’re thrilled. Okay, go ahead. Please.
Yeah.
Well, I don’t know what happened. I know that Voice of America is run in a terrible manner, terrible. They’re not the voice of America, they’re the opposite of the voice of America. And we have a man who is very good. I don’t know. He’s in the nominating process, but I’ll have to check that out. Yeah, please.
Well, I think a very big factor frankly is that very few people are  We read about all of the very sad, very tragic. I’ve lost friends. Many of us have lost friends. We read about that and we see that, and that’s what the news covers, but it’s a very small percentage. It’s a very, very small percentage. I say it all the time. It’s a tiny percentage. The vast majority, many people don’t even know they have it. They have it or they have sniffles or they have a very minor sign and they recover. Not only recover, they probably have immunity, whether it’s short term, long term, but they have probably immunity. And I think people have to understand that. That’s why I think the schools should be back in the fall. I think that lots of things should happen. I don’t think that you should have 70 year old teachers back yet. They should wait until everything is gone. I don’t think you should have a professor that’s 65 and has diabetes, or has a bad heart back necessarily, or somebody that’s older than that. But we want to see our schools back.
We want to see our country start to work again. We created the greatest economy in the history of the world and we’re going to do it again. And you’re going to see that next year. And it’s going to start, you’ll start to see it in the fourth quarter, maybe even before that. Yeah.
I’m concerned about everything. And I’m also concerned about our country. Our country has to get back. What you’re talking is when you are doing what we did with the shutdown, that causes death also. It causes massive depression. It causes drugs, it causes suicide. It causes a lot of problems also. No, our country has to get back to work again. And you see that just looking and reading everything that’s happening are people want to get back. They want to get back. Yeah.
We do. We do. We have a great plan to prevent the spread, but that doesn’t mean we’re going to close our country for five years. Okay. Not going to happen.
Go ahead.
At current, it’s about 86,000. Yes.
Or lower than that, I don’t know. I don’t know. Those are the numbers that are being reported. I assume they’re correct. Unlike other countries, I mean, you have some countries, obviously, you have some that are very obviously ridiculous, but our numbers are accurate numbers. We don’t do anything with the numbers one way or the other. Whatever it is, that’s what we do. We take the numbers as reported. Okay?
Oh, I don’t know. I don’t know. If they were, I’d be very happy if they were lower. I’d like to see numbers lower. I’d like to see no death at all. One death is too many. This should have never happened. This came from China. It should have been stopped in China before it got out to the world. We have 186, it’s been updated this morning, 186 countries are affected, and each country that’s affected is the same thing. Russia now is badly affected. France is badly affected. You look at what each country, and you can say affected, or you can say infected, either way you want to put it, but you look at these countries. Look at Italy and you look at Spain and you look at all of these great countries in many cases, how they’ve had to fight through this. It’s a terrible thing that happened. It could have been stopped at the source. It should have been stopped right at the source, but it wasn’t. Thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you, thank you, all that social distancing. Look at you people all spread out, six feet, that’s pretty impressive. But we like it the old way, a little bit better, don’t we? And we’ll be back. We’ll be back to that soon, I think, I really believe it. We were received by thousands and thousands of people coming in and they came in from all over and all the way from the airport to here was really something special, so it was really great. Sit down, let’s have a little fun and we’ll talk. And then we’ll talk about the business and the great job that you’re doing and we really appreciate you being here. Thank you very much. I’m honored, in the heart of the Lehigh Valley. Now, just so you know, I have a brother who was a great brother, passed away a long time ago, Fred, and he went to Lehigh University. I’ve been up here many times actually. And I gave a commencement address years ago at Lehigh University, it’s a great school. But whenever I think of this area, I think about my brother.
But I really am honored to be with extraordinary workers of Allentown, Pennsylvania. Every day you prove that American workers are truly the best in the world, and that’s what they are. We’re showing that now, we’re starting to make one more product in the United States. I with some of your representatives, associates, they call themselves. I assume if they’re associates you’re all making the same money, I hope so. They call themselves associates, sounds nice, right, more and more I see that. But it is good and they’re good and they’re doing a great job, frankly. But they’re talking about so much of the product now is made in the USA whereas in the past it wasn’t, it wasn’t. But they were talking about 90%, 80 to 90% of what you distribute is now made in the USA. And that’s taken a long while for us to get it. I started that right from the beginning. It’s probably one of the major reasons that I’m here. It’s called America first. We want America first, we love the world, we want America first.
Today we’re announcing a groundbreaking initiative to replenish and modernize our strategic national stockpile, the cupboards were bare, you’ve heard me say it a lot. When we came into this administration, those cupboards were bare. I’ve come to this major medical supply distribution hub because the workers here at Owens and Minor have a critical role in this national effort. And it’s a critical role that you fulfilled incredibly well, or I wouldn’t be here. I would have found someplace else. And thank you for those beautiful hats, I appreciate it, thank you. Thank you very much.
From the moment this terrible virus reached our shores, each of you has worked relentlessly to get the vital supplies to our healthcare warriors and they are warriors aren’t they? When you see them going into those hospitals and they’re putting the stuff that you deliver, but they’re wrapping themselves and the doors are opening and they’re going through the doors and they’re not even ready to go through those doors. They probably shouldn’t, but they can’t get there fast enough. And they’re running into death, just like soldiers, running to bullets in a true sense. I see that with the doctors and the nurses and so many of the people that go into those hospitals, it’s incredible to see, it’s a beautiful thing to see. But I really call them warriors, we’re all warriors. Everyone in our country is a warrior. We have to be because of what happened. And it should’ve never happened, should’ve been stopped at the source.
But each of you has worked relentlessly to get the supplies to our healthcare warriors and all across the hospitals and specifically for this plant in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. As you know, the pandemic has inflicted profound hardship, especially in the areas that you serve. Within one heartbeat, America grieves for every life and every family, all of those that have been lost and all over the world, 186, as of this morning, 186 countries. What a horrible shame. And we thank God for the courage of those on the front lines and you make it possible for them. Just as the men and women of Allentown have done in every generation, I know it well, the workers in this facility have answered the call in America’s hour of need.
Many of you are working long before dawn, get up and you go to work and long after midnight. I know your hours, I was talking to your people and your representatives they say  I’m saying, what are the hours? They said, "You won’t even believe it." I said, "But don’t work those hours too, we’re all working hard." You’re driving forklifts, staging pallets, packing, picking loading, and shipping all sorts of things all over these primarily three states. Since February, you have deployed an amazing 1.75 million and 95 respirators and you make them now yourselves. 3.4 million gowns, 80 million gloves and much more. And on behalf of our nation, I want to thank you because you’re making America proud. We really do, we thank you very much. Thank you all.
I’m grateful to Owens and Minor president, Edward Pesicka, along with your chief operating officer Jeff Jochims. We’re also joined by Secretary Alex Azar, doing a terrific job and your statement to the press today was fantastic. He made a very impassioned, strong, powerful statement today. FEMA administrator, Pete Gaynor. Pete, thank you very much. Great job. Fantastic job, you’re dealing directly, you and Admiral John Polowczyk. Where’s the Admiral? Great job, thank you very much. Are they doing a good job here Admiral? Huh? Good. When the Admiral says yes, that means you’re doing a good job. And the CEO of the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation, Adam Bowler, thank you Adam, fantastic. Every incredible worker here today is part of the greatest mobilization of American society since World War II. You know that, right? We’ve done things with generators and ventilators and so many different things. We’re making products that nobody ever thought would ever need in any mass form. Ventilators is the biggest thing.
We make plenty of ventilators, which was very little in the country because most hospitals didn’t need very many. And all of a sudden they said, we need hundreds of thousands of ventilators. We need kinds of numbers that you wouldn’t believe. And we were mobilized and with Adam and with the Admiral and with all of these people and Jared, somewhere Jared is here, what they did is incredible. We brought geniuses in from Silicon Valley. And all of a sudden, within a short period of time, we had 11 plants up making ventilators and you wouldn’t believe what it is. And now we have so many, every state has more than they need. We filled up our stockpile. We have over 10,000 now and we filled it up. We’re ready to go in case anything happens, but I don’t think-
And we filled it up. We’re ready to go in case anything happens, but I don’t think anything will happen where you’re going to need any more. And we’re now helping other countries with ventilators because nobody can make, you can’t make them, they’re very tough to make, very expensive. I say it’s tougher than making a car. And we make the best ventilator too. So they’ve done a fantastic job. And two months ago, you couldn’t get a ventilator. We were left virtually none.
Over the past few months, the federal government has partnered with Owens & Minor and other distributors to launch the very successful and historic project Airbridge, which is really being thought of and spoken of in glowing terms. Nearly 150 flights have brought 95 million masks, 16 million gowns, and 921 million gloves to America. Can you believe that? 921 million gloves, it’s not even conceivable. Guided by our team workers like you, distributed over 1 billion pieces of protective gear to places in need, a truly remarkable accomplishment. After meeting the immediate demand, we’ll be transforming and transitioning from project Airbridge to sealift, where we’re using big ships, giant ships. That’s less expensive and they can carry a lot more. And we don’t need the speed anymore because we’re very stocked up.
Now as our country begins a safe and gradual reopening, we’re launching a monumental effort to replenish and rebuild the Strategic National Stockpile. And we also did that, by the way, more fuel. When oil went down, we replenished our Strategic National Reserve. And we got it for a great price. Would you believe what went on with fuel? But now it’s starting to go back and we’re saving our energy industry because people didn’t need too much gasoline when there were no cars in the road. And I said to the governors, I said, "There are no cars on the road, this is a good time to fix your highways, fix your highways now." Some did and some didn’t. Right? They didn’t. They were worried that two people working 35 feet away from each other or driving a tractor or whatever they might be doing, they’ll catch the virus. But the ones that did were really helped because you went from being these massive traffic jams to having no traffic. And I can tell you Florida was a state, great governor. And Ron was, he told me, he said, "I’m doing it." I said, "That’s a good thing." Not everybody did it. Ron DeSantis of Florida, Governor of Florida. But some did and they’ve saved tremendous amounts of money. In rush hour, they’re building and they hardly had to close a lane. So a lot of good things you can do, but some people decided not to do that.
Under the previous administration, the stockpile was depleted and never fully refilled. Most of the N-95 masks were distributed during the N1H1. Now, you know what says that, right? N1H1, who says that? Sleepy Joe Biden. Remember? He said the N1H1. I said, "Isn’t it the other way around?" They said, "Yes, sir." But he said it. So it doesn’t make any difference. But during the H1N1, and that’s the swine flu, and it was a pandemic in ’09 that was not well handled at all, got very poor marks. Never again will another President inherit empty shelves or expired products, at least hopefully in five years, you’re talking about. Maybe nine years, maybe 13 years. But you’ll never have to deal with empty shelves and you’ll never have to deal with the depleted military. The military that we took over was depleted and in horrible shape. We’ve now spent $1.5 trillion rebuilding our military. We have the strongest military we’ve ever had by far. And this is a good time to have it too. And all of the product was built in the USA. But I’m determined that America will be fully prepared for any of the future outbreaks, of which we hope there’s going to be none. Who would’ve thought? 1917, it could have been up to 100 million people were killed in that was the Spanish flu. 1917. Who would have thought this was going to happen? That’s over 100 years ago.
Our effort begins by dramatically increasing our reserves. Instead of one to three weeks worth of supplies, which we had less than that, the US government will now stockpile three whole months, much of it made in the USA. My administration has already awarded contracts for approximately 200,000 ventilators, which we’re building ourselves. And now that we’re restocking all of those, great things are happening with ventilators. My administration has also ordered 800 million N-95 respirators and face masks. Face masks also, we’re making here. Last week I was at Honeywell. Great company, high tech company. And they’re making masks. And they’re making face masks. They’re making a lot of different things that three months ago, they never even thought about. They’ve geared up. It’s incredible what some of the companies have been able to do. You’ve seen that, what Honeywell has done, incredible job they’ve done.
But many of them are manufactured by Owens & Minor. Many of the things that we’re doing and delivering happily to places that were not able to get it, done by Owens & Minor. Thanks to a major investment in Del Rio, Texas, your company plans to produce an astounding 20 million N-95 masks per month. That’s more than you do here. I don’t know. You’re going to take that? I don’t think so. That won’t last long, right? Now, think of that. 20 million N-95 masks per month. And it’s going to be very shortly.
Next, my administration has taken action to modernize the stockpiles during this crisis. Admiral Polowczyk and his team built a cutting edge system that allows the federal government to integrate seamlessly with our nation’s largest distributors to procure, produce, and deliver astonishing quantities of supplies where they need it the most. We have an incredible system. Hope we’re not going to need it, but it’s there, right? It’s there. It’s there like nobody would even believe. And the press doesn’t ever talk about it. They don’t want to talk about that. There they are right there. They don’t want to talk about it. They are a disaster. But that’s okay. The people understand, and that’s all that really matters when you get right down to it.
Going forward, we’ll build on this system to create a stockpile that is not only the best resourced in the world, but also evolves to meet all of the new threats that can happen, things that you’re not even thinking about right now. We’ll continue to partner with American industry and distributors like you to help manage and rotate our vastly expanded inventory. The final step in rebuilding the stockpile is to bring critical manufacturing permanently back to America. Wouldn’t that be nice, right? We’re doing it. And we’ve been doing it. My goal is to produce everything America needs for ourselves, and then export to the world. And that includes medicines. It’s very important. Too reliant on other countries. And I’ve been saying that for a long time, long before I became elected President, right?
long time, long before I became elected president, right? He knows. He’s been hearing it. To this end earlier today, I signed an executive order just signed it, invoking the Defense Production Act to grant new authority to the US International Development Finance Corporation, just a little while on the plane. This federal agency normally invests in economic development projects in other countries. I said, "How about investing in our country?" We invest in other countries. Globalists, do you know what a globalist is? They want the globe to do well, but they don’t care about us. Now, we want everybody to do well, but we have to take care of America first. It’s got to be America first.
And you know what other countries say? Their country first. Why wouldn’t they do that? But we didn’t do that. We had a bunch of globalists that didn’t know what the hell they were doing. But under my order, it will now also invest in our country, helping to bring vital factories, pharmaceutical producers, and most importantly, jobs back home where they belong. Now, we had the greatest economy in the world. We had the best job numbers we’ve ever had. We had almost 160 million people working, we were never even close to that. The best unemployment numbers we’ve ever had, African-American, Asian-American, Hispanic- American, had the best job numbers in history, in the history of our country. They never did so well, best income numbers, best stock market numbers, 401k numbers. The good part is the stock markets because they know, we know what we’re doing, the stock market’s ready to move, never went down like a lot of people said, "Wow, it’s 23, 24,000." It was 29,000. It never went down like people would have assumed because they know what’s happening. They know, smart people, a lot of smart people, they know what’s going to happen.
We are going to have an amazing next year, one of our best, but we had the greatest year ever and then we had to turn it off, artificially induced. We had to turn it off. If we didn’t do that, we would’ve lost 2 million people instead of whether it’s 95,000, a hundred thousand, one is too many, but we would’ve lost 2 million people, maybe more than that, maybe somewhat less. But think of it, even if it was a little less. Multiply what we have by 20, or by 15, wouldn’t be acceptable, wouldn’t be sustainable. People would’ve said, "What’s going on over here? You multiply, as bad as you’ve seen it." And you can say what you want about the flu, but I’ve never lost anybody to the flu that I knew. I mean, I’ve had people, friends, they had the flu and they’re sick, they don’t feel good. And you call up, "How you doing?" Three days, two days, a week later, they’re fine. Nobody ever said they died.
But I’ve lost five people that I know, two people were very good friends of mine and you call up two days later, "How are they doing?" "Sir, they’re in a coma." I said, "They’re in a coma?" Now, they were older. I wouldn’t say they were in the greatest of health. I wouldn’t say their weight was perfect, not perfect, but they’re gone. So it’s just a terrible, terrible thing.
In my administration, we believe in two beautiful rules, buy American and hire American. This afternoon, I also have great news on testing. We’ve been doing testing at a level that nobody’s ever done it before, we can not get any We can not get the press to write about it or write fairly about it. And nobody has ever done, we’ve done double what anyone else If you add up all of the countries in the world, we’ve done more testing than all of the countries in the world, add it up together. Nobody’s ever done anything like that.
And we have the best test. We have tested Two months ago, it didn’t even exist. Our great companies came up with things, Abbott Laboratories and so many others. They came up with things at Roche, they came up with things that nobody even believes. So we have the best testing in the world. It could be the test is frankly overrated. Maybe it is overrated, but whenever they start yelling, "We want more. We want more." They always say, "We want more. We want more," because they don’t want to give you credit. Then we do more. And they say, "We want more." But we have the greatest testing in the world. But what we want is we want to get rid of this thing, it’s what we want. We want to get rid of this thing.
This afternoon, I also have great news on that testing. America has now conducted it ten millionth test, that’s as of yesterday afternoon. 10 million tests we gave, 10 million. And CVS has just committed to establish up to 1000 new coronavirus testing sites by the end of this month. And the 10 millionth will go up very, very rapidly. And don’t forget, we have more cases than anybody in the world, but why? Because we do more testing. When you test, you have a case. When you test, you find something is wrong with people. If we didn’t do any testing, we wouldn’t have very few cases. They don’t want to write that, it’s common sense. So we test much more, many, many times. South Korea you hear about. I spoke with the president of South Korea, spoke with many different presidents, prime ministers. They can’t believe what we’ve been able to do on testing. They can’t believe what we’ve been able to do on ventilators, we’re sending them ventilators.
Other countries, Italy, Spain, other countries, France is having tremendous problems, tremendous problems. We’re helping them with ventilators. They can’t believe the job we’re doing. And it’s not me, it’s the people, all of these people, but it’s the people that are doing it. And they have to be given the proper credit for what they’ve done, because what they did is a miracle. No other country in the world has done what we’ve done. And they feel very free now to call us because they need help, especially with the ventilators, because that’s hard, that’s not a cotton swab. That’s a very hard thing. Very, very hard thing to produce.
Joining us today are a few of the workers who have kept our hospital supplied through this crisis and take part in a great, great rebuilding that’s going forward. I say, it’s the transition to greatness. The transition is the third quarter. The fourth quarter is going to do very well. And next year is going to be through the roof. We have to get your governor of Pennsylvania to start opening up a little bit. You have areas of Pennsylvania that are barely affected and they want to keep them closed, can’t do that. Dennis DeCarlo is a Marine Corps veteran who served our country in the Gulf War in Somalia. Now he continues that spirit of services and operations supervisor and Dennis, please come up and say a few words. Come, thank you. Thanks Dennis.
Thank you very much. Please sit. Thank you, be seated please. And Melania, thank you very much. On the second anniversary of the Be Best initiative, you’ve done a fantastic job and everybody appreciates it, but I want to Thank you, and I want to thank you on behalf of the entire nation for all that you do for America’s children and on fighting the drug addiction problem that we have in this country. It’s all over the world, but I want to thank you very much. Great job. You do your work so hard. On this national day of prayer, America is engaged in a fierce battle against a very terrible disease. Throughout our history, in times of challenge, our people have always called upon the gift of faith, the blessing of belief, the power of prayer and the eternal glory of God. I ask all Americans to join their voices and their hearts in spiritual union as we ask our Lord in heaven for strength and solace, for courage and comfort, for hope and healing, for recovery and for renewal.
In recent days and weeks, our country has endured a grave hardship. We pray for every family stricken with grief and devastated with a tragic loss. We pray for the doctors, the nurses and first responders waging war against the invisible enemy. We pray for the scientists’ and researchers’ pioneer treatments, that they find therapies and vaccines and that they find them soon. We pray for the frontline workers keeping our nation fed, nourished and safe and secure. May God watch over them all. We’re honored to have with us today our amazing vice president Mike Pence and his wonderful wife, Karen. Great friends of our nation and great friends of mine and Melania’s, and somebody who’s done an incredible job not only as vice president but as heading the task force which has come up with so many solutions and ideas and things that we didn’t even think about two months ago.
We’re also profoundly grateful to be joined by many faith leaders who are helping to care for our neighbors in their hour of need. Thank you all for providing meals to families, medical supplies to hospitals, and for providing spiritual strength and encouragement to your communities. Very important people, very respected people, and very much loved people. In every part of our country, we’ve seen grace of God through the love and devotion of our fellow citizens as scripture assures us the Lord your God is not your midst, a mighty one who will save. And I think it’s so true. Think of that, the Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. We have been reminded once again-
who will save. We have been reminded once again that God has blessed our land with heroes of faith. Here with us is Brittany Akinsola from Charlotte, North Carolina. Brittany is a nurse, a pastor, a wife, a mother. When she saw the dire situation in New York City, she volunteered to work at Samaritan’s Purse Field Hospital in Central Park. There she worked 13-hour shifts in the intensive care unit for weeks praying for each patient while giving them the very best care. As Brittany said, "We just keep sharing the love of Christ through our gifts of nursing."
Brittany, America’s forever indebted to you and the incredible job you have done. We very much appreciate it, Brittany. Please come up. Please come up, Brittany, and say a few words. Thank you.
Thank you, thank you. So we begin, Oklahoma, we begin. Thank you, Oklahoma. And thank you to Vice President Mike Pence. We begin, we begin our campaign. Thank you. We begin our campaign and I just want to thank all of you, you are warriors. I’ve been watching the fake news for weeks now, and everything is negative. Don’t go, don’t come, don’t do anything. Today it was like, I’ve never seen anything like it. I’ve never seen anything like it. You are warriors, thank you. We had some very bad people outside. We had some very bad people outside, they were doing bad things. But I really do, I appreciate it. We have just a tremendous group of people in Oklahoma. And I hear, I hear from your two great Senators and your governor that we’re doing very well in Oklahoma, that’s the word. That’s the word. I stand before you today to declare the silent majority is stronger than ever before. Five months from now, we’re going to defeat sleepy Joe Biden. Boy, does he get a pass from these people, huh? We’re going to stop the radical left. We’re going to build a future of safety and opportunity for Americans of every race, color, religion, and creed. Republicans are the party of liberty, equality, and justice for all. We are the party of Abraham Lincoln and we are the party of law and order. Think of what we’ve done. We will have close to 300 federal judges appointed and approved by the end of my first time, that’s an all time record. That’s an all time record. I’ve always heard how important judges are. Now we know how important they are. Think of that over 300, around 300, by the end of the term. And when we have another four years, we’re going to have a big, big percentage of the total number. Very important, November 3rd.
And two great Supreme Court judges. So we have two justices of the Supreme Court, Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, they’re great. They are, they’re great. We have two. And we could get a few more, yeah, we can get a few more. We’ve spent over $2 trillion to completely rebuild the unmatched strength and power of the United States Military. And all of that incredible equipment, whether it’s submarines or missiles or rockets or jet fighters, bombers, it’s all built in the USA. We passed V.A. Choice. Thank you very much, Jim. Where’s my Senator? Jim Inhofe, you better vote for him, he’s running, he’s great.
But we’ll get to him and James Lankford in a second, two great Senators. You have two great senators. So we passed V.A. Choice. So if you’re a veteran, for years and years, they’ve wanted to do it for almost 50 years, we got it done. We get a lot of things done. And so if you’re a veteran and you have to wait on line for one week, two weeks, three weeks, five weeks, seven weeks, two months. What happens is you go outside, you get a private doctor, you get fixed up and they pay your bill. We take care of the bill. We take care of the bill and you get immediate service. It’s never happened before. And our approval rating at the V.A. is now 91%, that’s how good it is. Never been anywhere near that number. Never been anywhere near that number.
And V.A. accountability, we had a lot of bad people in the V.A. People that didn’t love our vets, people that were sadistic, people that stole, a lot of bad people. You couldn’t get rid of them because they were, let’s say it could be unions, it could be civil service, right, let’s say, let’s just say. And so you couldn’t get it done. That was another one for decades and decades, they wanted to get it changed. And I got it done with those people and your Congressman, your Congressman who I’m going to introduce. V.A. accountability, and now somebody treats our veterans badly and we look at them and what do we say? We say, you’re fired, get out, right? Get out.
They got rid of a lot of bad people that were there for a long time. Sort of like me in Washington, draining the swamp. I never knew it was so deep. But it’s happening. It’s happening, I never knew it was so deep. It’s deep and thick and a lot of bad characters. Thank you. We’re lowering the price of prescription drugs, making our allies pay their fair share. They get a big bargain on drug prices and enacting fair trade deals. That finally, finally, after all these years put America first. I’ve been saying it for a long time. We passed the largest tax cuts in the history of our country. The Democrats want to raise your taxes. Tell me about that. Tell me about that. I guess I’m old fashioned. All my life, all my life, I heard politicians want to lower taxes, not raise them. If you could lower him, you couldn’t lose. The Democrats want to substantially raise your taxes. How do you figure that? How do you figure that? And regulation cuts, we passed more regulation cuts than any administration in the history of our country. And with the help of our great energy workers, many of them come from the great state of Oklahoma. Do you ever notice that Biden, no, do you ever notice that Biden oftentimes gets the state wrong? He’s in Iowa and he says it’s good to be in Idaho. No, no, you’re in Iowa. He’s in New Hampshire and he says it’s great to be in Ohio. No, no, no, you’re in New Hampshire. That happens to him all the time, hasn’t happened to me yet. When that happens, there’s nothing you can do to make up for it. You might as well just walk off the stage because the speech is a disaster. Right, right. But we just turned the United States into the dominant energy super power of the world, of the world. And because of the Chinese virus, what happened about three months ago, it looked like we were in big trouble and we were, and I got it back together. I called Russia. Right, I called Russia.
I called Saudi Arabia and believe it or not, I called Mexico. Mexico was a little bit tough. That’s called OPEC Plus, did you ever hear of OPEC Plus. That’s OPEC Plus plus. And we got them to do the right thing and we have our energy back to almost $40 a barrel, meaning you have an energy business again. Almost $40 a barrel. Couple of months ago, it was zero and we were going to lose 10 million energy jobs, 10 million jobs. So Texas and Oklahoma and North Dakota, and many other states would have been hurt. Now you think you’re going to be hurt there. You try putting AOC in judge of your energy. That will make the pandemic look like child’s play to the people in energy. She has one problem, it’s called petroleum. No president or administration has done more in the first three and a half years than the Trump administration. Not even close. Nobody.
Our incredible success in rebuilding America stands in stark contrast to the extremism and destruction and violence of the radical left. We just saw it outside. We just saw it outside, you saw these thugs that came along. These people, call them protesters, isn’t it beautiful, it’s so beautiful. No, they’re so wonderful. They call them the Boston Tea Party. They’re so wonderful. Yeah, they call them  You ever watch fake news, CNN, you ever watch?
How about the CNN anchor, how about the CNN anchor, you know, did a little shave job in the head, which is fine. And he’s standing in front of a building saying, "things are very peaceful here." And the building is, it looks like the biggest fire I’ve ever seen. The whole town is burning. It’s like the biggest fire. And he said, "Things are very good here, Anderson. I think it’s great. These are wonderful people, Anderson." Did you ever see that? It looked like the world was coming to an end. And we did something in Minneapolis after watching for three or four days, I called, I said, "You got to get  you can’t protect yourselves." I got them to take 8,000 National Guardsmen. And in one hour it all ended and they rode through the next three weeks with no problem.
And we did the same thing in other cities. But how about Seattle? Isn’t that great? So they take over a big chunk of a city called Seattle. I mean, we’re not talking about some little place, we’re talking about Seattle. Have you ever been to Seattle? They took over a big chunk and the governor, who’s radical left, all of these places I talk about are Democrat, you know that, every one of them, every one of them. And I’d have an offer out, I said, "Anytime you want we’ll come in, we’ll straighten it out in one hour or less." Now I may be wrong, but it’s probably better for us to just watch that disaster.
I flew in with some of our great congressmen, who we’re going to introduce it a second. And I said to them, "Congressmen, what do you think? I can straighten it out fast, should we just go in? No, sir. Let it simmer for a little while. Let people see what radical left Democrats will do to our country." But Americans have watched left wing radicals, burn down buildings, loot businesses, destroy private property, injure hundreds of dedicated police offices. These police officers, they get injured, they don’t complain. They’re incredible. And injure thousands upon thousands of people only to hear the radical fake news say what a beautiful rally it was. And they never talk about COVID. They don’t talk about, when you see 25,000 people walking down Fifth Avenue or walking down a street of a Democrat run city, you never hear them saying, they’re not wearing their mask. You don’t hear their say, as they’re breaking windows and running in. And then when I say the looters, the anarchists, the agitators, they say, "What a terrible thing for our president to say, what a terrible thing."
But you don’t hear them talking about COVID, COVID, to be specific, COVID-19. That name gets further and further away from China, as opposed to calling it the Chinese virus. And despite the fact that we  I have done a phenomenal job with it, I shut down the United States to very heavily infected but all people from China in late January, which is months earlier than other people would have done it, if they would have done it at all. I saved hundreds of thousands of lives. We don’t ever get even a mention. Then I closed it down to Europe early, closed it down because I saw what was happening. And by the way, most people said, don’t do it, don’t do it. We saved hundreds of thousands of lives and all we do is get hit on like we’re terrible. And what we’ve done with the ventilators and with the medical equipment. And with testing, you know, testing is a double edged sword. We’ve tested now 25 million people. It’s probably 20 million people more than anybody else. Germany’s done a lot. South Korea has done a lot.
They called me, they said, the job you’re doing  Here’s the bad part. When you do testing to that extent, you’re going to find more people, you’re going to find more cases. So I said to my people slow the testing down, please. They test and they test. We had tests and people don’t know what’s going on. We got tests, we got another one over here. The young man’s 10-years-old. He’s got the sniffles. He’ll recover in about 15 minutes. That’s a case, add him to it. That’s okay. That’s a case. I was actually with a very nice man, very good man, even though he’s very liberal, the Governor of New Jersey, right? We know him? Now listen, he said to me, something that’s amazing. New Jersey was very heavily hit, very hard hit, thousands of people. He said with thousands of people that died, thousands of people, there was only one person that died under the age of 18. Would you believe that? Which tells me one thing, that kids are much stronger than us.
When you see a little kid running around say, "Boy, oh, boy, do you have a great immune system? How about a piece of your immune system?" They don’t even know about this. Let’s open the schools, please. Open the schools. Open the schools. We got to get them open. In the fall, we got to get them open. The unhinged left wing mob is trying to vandalize our history, desecrate our monuments, our beautiful monuments. Tear down our statues and punish, cancel and persecute anyone who does not conform to their demands for absolute and total control. We’re not conforming, that’s why we’re here, actually. This cruel campaign of censorship and exclusion violates everything we hold dear as Americans. They want to demolish our heritage so they can impose their new oppressive regime in its place. They want to defund and dissolve our police departments, think of that.
And I heard it for the first time two weeks ago, I said, "Well, that one, I mean, they’re only kidding." I said, "They’re only, they’re not." Minneapolis, you what’s going on. They’re not kidding. They got a lot of problems. They’ll have a lot of problems. Hey, it’s 1:00 o’clock in the morning and a very tough, I’ve used the word on occasion, hombre, a very tough hombre is breaking into the window of a young woman whose husband is away as a traveling salesman or whatever he may do. And you call 911 and they say, "I’m sorry, this number’s no longer working." By the way, you have many cases like that, many, many, many. Whether it’s a young woman, an old woman, a young man or an old man and you’re sleeping. So what are you going to do, right? So they want to defund. They really do, this as a serious movement. And in Minneapolis, the council’s already passed it. In Seattle, you see what’s going on there, it’s even worse, okay. These people are stone cold crazy. They’re crazy.
So if you want to save, you want to say that beautiful heritage of ours, we have a great heritage. We’re a great country. You are so lucky I’m president, that’s all I can tell you.
USA! USA! USA! USA!
People have come up to me, say, "How do you take it?" I say, "Do I have a choice? Do I have a choice?" We deal with a lot of bad people, but we’re winning. And every once in a while, I’ll have one of these days where I’m hit left and right, left and right, like even this great event. If you could have seen outside or if you could have heard the reports, the reports, "Oh, it’s COVID." It’s this again. By the way, it’s a disease without question, has more names than any disease in history. I can name, "Kung flu." I can name, 19 different versions of names. Many call it a virus, which it is. Many call it a flu, what difference? I think we have 19 or 20 versions of the name. But they say to me, "Where do you get the energy?" I say, "I don’t have a choice. I don’t have a choice." It was interesting, to show you how fake they are, you might’ve seen it. So last week they called me and they say, "Sir, West Point, West Point, we’re ready." I said, "Oh, that’s right. I have to make the commencement speech at West Point."
You know, they delayed it for six weeks because of COVID. So they delayed it and I went there. 1,106 cadets were graduated and beautiful. Beautiful. Just to show you how bad the fake news is, so they say to me, "Sir, we’re ready to go." I say, "Let’s go." This is after saying hello to a lot of cadets, inspecting little areas of a building, that was very exciting. Actually, it’s beautiful, very old. Studied a lot of our great generals, some of our presidents that went there. West Point is beautiful, right on the Hudson River. But after an hour, the general that runs it is a fantastic guy. After an hour, we land, we do some more inspections and they say, "Sir, are you ready? Yes, I am." So we walked like the equivalent of about three blocks, which is fine. We go onstage, which is fine. They make speeches, then I make a speech that lasted a long time. I don’t know, maybe 45 minutes, maybe longer, I don’t know but a long time. The sun is pouring down on me, okay.
But they said to me before the speech, "Sir, would you like to salute each cadet, each single cadet? Or maybe there’ll be in groups of two. Would you like to salute? Like this? Yes." Like this, almost 600 times. You know what that is? 600 times. Thank God they were in twos because let me tell you, you do that 600 times, you go home and you say it’s like a workout without a weight, right? 600 times. So I did that. Then the incredible helicopters, brand new gorgeous helicopters, the Apaches and the other new ones that we just bought.
Helicopters, the Apaches and the other new ones that we just bought. So they fly over and the kids throw the hats in the air, it’s beautiful, it really is. It was a beautiful day and we’re all finished. I was on the stage for hours, hours, sun, I came home, I had a nice tan, meaning I had a nice sunburn. The sun’s like that, but I make this speech. I salute for probably an hour and a half, maybe more, but around that. Watch. If I’m off by two minutes they’ll say, "He exaggerated. It was only an hour and 25 minutes. He exaggerated, he lied, he lied, he’s a liar." These people are sick, the fake news.
So then I finish saluting my final salute, I said, "Thank goodness. Thank you very much." Think of it. So essentially almost 600 times. Now the general says, "Sir, are you ready?" I said, "I’m ready General, where are we going now?" You have to understand I left early in the morning to get there. Now it’s sort of late in the afternoon. A lot of these fakers were with us. So they know. He said, " Sir, we can now leave the stage." I said, "Great general, let’s go, I’ll follow you," and he goes like this, "Right here, sir," and I walked off. The stage was higher than this one and the ramp was probably 10 yards long. I say, "General." Now you got to understand, I have the whole corps of cadets looking at me and I want them to love their president, I did this big thing. I love them, I love them. They’re incredible, and they do. I said, "General, I’ve got myself a problem, general." Because I’m wearing leather bottom shoes which is good if you’re walking on flat surfaces. It’s not good for ramps and if I fall down, look at all those press back there, look at them. This was a steel ramp, you all saw it because everybody saw it. This was a steel ramp. It had no handrail, it was like an ice skating rink, and I said, "General, I have a problem," and he didn’t understand that at first. I said, "There’s no way." He understood, I just saluted almost 600 times. I just made a big speech. I sat for other speeches. I’m being baked. I’m being baked like a cake. I said, "General, there’s no way I can make it down that ramp without falling on my ass, General. I have no railing."
It’s true. So I said, "Is there like something else around?" "Sir, the ramp is ready to go." "Grab me sir, grab me." I didn’t really want to grab him. You know why? Because I said, "That will be a story too." So now I have a choice. I can stay up there for another couple of hours and wait till I’m rescued or I can go down this really steep, really, really, really  It’s an ice skating rink, it’s brutal. So I said, "General, get ready because I may grab you so fast." Because I can’t fall with the fake news watching. If I fall, if I fall, I remember when President Ford fell out of the plane, do you remember? I remember when another president, nice man, threw up in Japan, and they did slow motion replays. It’s true, right? "I don’t want that, general." Now he’s standing there, big strong guy, and he’s got these shoes but they’re loaded with rubber on the bottom because I looked, the first thing I did, I looked at his shoes. Then I looked at mine. Very, very slippery. So I end up saying, "Okay, general, let’s go. I will only grab you if I need you. That’s not a good story. Falling would be a disaster. It turned out to be worse than anything, I would have been better off if I fell and slid down the damn ramp. Right? So what happens is I start the journey, inch by inch, right? I was really bent over too. I didn’t like that. I didn’t like this picture. This picture I’m sure will be an ad by the fakers. So I was bent over, right? Bent over like this. Then we finally reached almost the end and the fake news, the most dishonest human beings, they cut it off. You know why? Because when I was 10 feet short, I said, "General, I’m sorry," and I ran down the rest, right? I looked very handsome. That was the only good. I wouldn’t want to run down the whole thing because the fall there would be definitely bad. So I took these little steps, I ran down the last 10, and by the way their tape, take a look. In almost every instance, it ends just before I run, and they said, "Here was the number one trending story."
I call my wife, I said, "How good was that speech? I thought it was a " Hey look, I will tell you when I make good ones and bad ones. Like so far tonight, I’m average, but we’re having fun, we’re having fun. So far tonight, but I call my wife and I said, "How good was it, darling?" She said, "You’re trending number one." I said to our great first lady, I said, "Let me ask you a question. Was it that good of a speech that I’m trending number one? Because I felt it was really good." No no, they don’t even mention the speech. They mention the fact that you may have Parkinson’s disease. It’s true. It’s true. It’s true.
They say there is something wrong with our president. I’ll let you know if there’s something wrong, okay? I’ll let you know if there’s something, I’ll tell you what, there’s something wrong with Biden, that I could tell you.
So then my wife said, "Well it wasn’t only the ramp. Did you have water?" I said, "Yeah. I was speaking for a long time. I didn’t want to drink it, but I wanted to wet my lips a little bit." You’re drinking, you’re working hard up there with the sun pouring down on you. I love this location, the sun’s like this. This way they save on lighting, right? That’s why they did it probably. So what happens is I said, "What does it have to do with water?" They said, "You couldn’t lift your hand up to your mouth with water." I said, "I just saluted 600 times like this, and this was before I saluted, so what’s the problem?" She said, "Well I know what you did. You had on a very good red tie that’s sort of expensive." It’s silk because they look better. They have a better sheen to them. And I don’t want to get water on the tie, and I don’t want to drink much, so I lift it up, the water.
I see we have a little glass of water. Where the hell did this water come from? Where did it come from? I look down at my tie because I’ve done it. I’ve taken water and it spills down onto your tie, doesn’t look good for a long time and frankly, the tie is never the same. So I put it up to my lip and then I say, and they gave me another disease. They gave me another disease. Anyway, that’s a long story, but here’s the story. I have lived with more the ramp than the water but I have lived with the ramp and the water since I left West Point. Not one media group said I made a good speech or I made a great speech, but the kids loved it because they broke their barrier which wasn’t good in terms of COVID but they broke their barrier and they wanted to shake hands, they wanted to  I don’t want to tell anybody, but there were a couple of kids, they put out their hand, I actually shook their hand, okay? I actually shook them. Because they were excited. They were excited. They were with their president. They were excited. The most beautiful young people. Men, women, the most beautiful young people you’ve ever seen. So think of how you feel if you’re me. I go there, how did I do? "Sir, that was a great speech." You know all my people, "Sir, that was one of your best, that was great." I said, "That’s great, I agree, it was a good speech. I like that speech." They don’t mention the speech but they have been going down this ramp. It’s so unfair. It really is. So unfair. They are among the most dishonest people anywhere on earth. They’re bad people. Bad people.
Okay, that’s enough of that. I wanted to tell that story. Does everybody understand that story? The left-wing anarchists tore down a statue of Thomas Jefferson. Now we’re getting into the real stuff. They decapitated a statue of Christopher Columbus, except in New York when the Italians surrounded it. They didn’t have too much of a chance. Those Italians, I love the Italians. They heard they were going to rip down their beautiful Christopher Columbus and all of a sudden they circle that thing. They didn’t do too well in hurting Christopher, did they? Thank you to our Italian population, we’re very proud of you, right? Two days ago, leftist radicals in Portland, Oregon ripped down a statue of George Washington and wrapped it in an American flag and set the American flag on fire. Democrat, all Democrat. Everything I tell you is Democrat and you know we ought to do something, Mr. Senators, we have two great senators, we ought to come up with legislation that if you burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year. One year. Jim and James. Jim and James. We ought to do it. You know they talk about freedom of speech and I’m a big believer in freedom of speech, but that’s desecration, that’s a terrible thing they do. We used to have things, we don’t have them anymore because we want to be so open, so everything, and look what happens? We should have legislation that if somebody wants to burn the American flag and stomp on it or just burn it, they go to jail for one year, okay? In Seattle the Democrat mayor and the Democrat city council have surrendered control of six city blocks to an anarchist  Now these are anarchists, these are not protestors. You listen to the fake news, they say, "Oh, the protesters were lovely." Could you imagine if people just even slightly to the right tried to take over Seattle? They’d have machine guns out to get them, but these people can take over the city, look at what they’ve done to businesspeople that have spent years and years building their business, and now they’re wiped out. Take it away. Governor Inslee ought to get his act together, get in there, I’ll help you, I’ll do whatever you want. I’m waiting for a call, I would love to do it. I would love to do it, it’ll take less than an hour and it’ll all be over with and you’ll have your city back.
Yet Biden remains silent in his basement in the face of this brutal assault on our nation and the values of our nation. Joe Biden has surrendered to his party and to the left-wing mob. He has no control. Does anybody honestly think he controls these radial maniacs? You know what he says to his wife when he’s not confusing her with his sister? "Get me the hell out of there. These people are crazy." That’s what he says. He has absolutely no control. You know a lot of times I’ll make like a speech and I’ll have this beautiful paragraph come out criticizing every little aspect of the speech, beautiful, brilliant, but Joe didn’t  It’ll say, "A comment from Joe Biden," but he didn’t say it. Professional people, great students in English lit, people that are very smart say it. Joe Biden said, and they’ll go into this highly complex paragraph, beautifully worded and I say, "Joe didn’t say that. Joe doesn’t even understand it."
If Biden is elected, he will surrender your country to these mobsters 100%. Your 401(k)s, by the way, look at how we’re doing in the stock market. Just set another record with NASDAQ. NASDAQ. Your 401(k)s and money itself will be worthless. Your 401(k)s are doing very well unless I don’t want to say  If you were stupid I’d say, "Don’t sell. Don’t sell. It went down." But we got it back up, and now NASDAQ, think of it. NASDAQ just set a record and I think you’re going to see a lot of records, and next year, if we don’t do anything stupid on November 3, you are going to have the greatest economic year we’ve ever had. That will be next year. If the Democrats gain power, than the rioters will be in charge and no one will be safe and no one will have control. Joe Biden is not the leader of his party. Joe Biden is a helpless puppet of the radical left, and he’s not radical left. I don’t think he knows what he is anymore, but he was never radical left, but he’s controlled by the radical left, and now he’s really controlled. His campaign staff even donated a lot of money to bail out rioters, looters and arsonists who ravaged Minneapolis. They bailed them out, they put up a lot of money to bail them out, the rioters, the looters and they were, they were the arsonists. They’ll say, "Oh, it’s terrible what he says about the people of our nation." Maybe some of them aren’t even from our nation. The leftists try to do everything they can to stop us. Every hour of every day, including even violence and mayhem, they’ll do anything they can to stop us. Look what happened tonight. Look at what happened tonight. Law enforcement said, "Sir, they can’t be outside. It’s too dangerous." We had a bunch of maniacs come and sort of attack our city. The mayor and the governor did a great job, but they were very violent people. Our people are not nearly as violent, but if they ever were, it would be a terrible, terrible day for the other side. Because I know our people. I know our people, but we will never submit to their threats and we will never let them destroy our nation. What they did tonight, I saw it on television coming in on Air Force One. One thing about Air Force One, we got plenty of televisions. We have televisions in closets. You open up the closet, got a television. We got a lot of televisions. It’s a great plane. Great everything. By the way, we ordered new ones. No president wanted to do it. They thought it was luxurious, wait a minute, Air Force One is 31 years old. People don’t realize that. So I said, they gave me a charge, very early in my administration like how about the first week? "Sir, would you sign for this plane?" Now it’s actually two planes. "Would you sign for this plane? Air Force One?" I said, "How old is the original or the one we have now?" "Sir, it’s 31, 32 years." I’d see people coming in from foreign lands that can’t compete with us, rich countries but they can’t compete with the  They have a brand new beautiful 747-800, and I say, "Wait a minute. That country has new and we have a 31-year, so somebody had to do "
So the deal was made and it was made for a lot of money. I think it was $5.7 or $5.6 billion. Now in all fairness, it’s two planes and there’s a lot of stuff in those planes I won’t talk to you about. So I told Boeing, the head of Boeing, they said, "Sir, please, we’d like to get started on the planes," I said, "I do too, but I’m not paying $5.6 billion, and I’m not paying $4.6 billion." I said, " It has to have a three on the front of it." That’s a hell of a lot of money too, but it is a rather complex situation. They said, "No way." No way. This was before Boeing had problems by the way, but Boeing is coming back. They’re coming back. Greatest company of the world and that’s their big problem. It had a couple of problems that didn’t work out. That was terrible, but the greatest. I think before that, it was the greatest company in the world. It made up a quarter, one quarter of a point, of our GDP. Think how big that is, one company. It was an unbelievable machine and then they made a plane and they did some foolish things and a terrible thing happened and all of a sudden they’ve gone through hell but you know what? They’re coming back, we’re ready to help them if they need it but they’re coming back in the coming. This was the Boeing before that and they were riding high, like I was before this thing came in, but we’re still riding high because you know what? On November 3 we’re going to win. We’re going to win. So they came in and they came in and they said, "No no no, we want $5.6 billion, whatever it was." Whatever it was, if I’m a little bit off they’ll go crazy. Whatever, but it was a lot. $5.6 billion. Nope, got to have a three. Got to have a three, call me up. Nope, cancel the contract. I said, "Cancel the contract. I want it canceled." I said, "General, can you cancel the contract?" He said, "Yes sir, I’m very proud of it." "Oh good. Cancel it." "Okay sir." "By the way, to cancel it, do you have to pay anything?" "Yes sir. We have a cancellation fee sir." "How much is it, general?" "$250 million." I said, "What?" "Sir, we made a good deal. $250 million to kill." "You mean if we don’t buy the plane we have to hand them $250 million." That’s not good, right? Look at these two guys, they’re looking.
By the way, that’s like a good story compared to some I could tell you, like with aircraft carriers. So they said, "$250 million?" Or I always say this, or around that number, because if I’m off by a little bit, they say, "Oh, he exaggerates." I look at numbers all day long. That’s what I look at for years now, for my whole life when you think of it. $250 million cancellation fee, sir. He was very proud of himself. What a great  I say, "General. Don’t cancel. Don’t cancel. Just tell them I don’t want the planes. Don’t put anything in writing, don’t put it in writing, general." "Why sir?" "Because I don’t want to pay 250." True. You hear that Jim? Jim Inhofe, he’s great. You hear that Jim? You know that story. He does a great job.
So here’s what happened, the bottom line. Boeing says, "No way, no way, no way." The next week they say, "No way we’re doing it." The next week they said, "How about $5 billion?" I said, "No way. No way." The next week they said, "$4.8." I said, "Nope. It’s got to have a 3 at the front of it. Don’t you understand, you dumb son of a bitch? Don’t you understand?" I turned out to be right. Turned out to be right. Nobody gets that. Nope. Got to have a three. Next day, they come back, "$4.5 is our best offer." "Nope. I’m not doing it. I’m not doing it. Come back when you’re ready." A month goes by, another month, they never heard about it, they never heard from me, they thought I was serious, I was, and they came back at $4 billion.
That’s a lot of money but I save like a billion six or a billion seven. Nobody wants to talk about it. Nobody wants to talk about it. When I get foreign nations to pay us billions and billions of dollars, nobody wants to talk about that. When I take soldiers out of countries because they’re not treating us properly, Germany is an example. I mean I have a German heritage like some of you. I said, "Let’s get it down from $50,000.00 to $25,000.00 because they’re delinquent. For many years they’re delinquent. They haven’t been paying what they’re supposed to be paying. They’re paying 1% instead of 2% and 2% is a very low number," and they say, "Yes, we think by
And they say, yes, we think by 2030, maybe 2032, we could get current. I said, "No, Angela, please. Don’t say that Angela. It’s true. You know who I’m talking about. By the way, very nice woman. Very good negotiator. I said, "Angela, that’s a long time," this was in 2019. She said 2032. I said, "No Angela, that’s not working." But I said, because now they want to get cared, but I said, "Well, what about the last 25 years? All the money you owe us?" Everybody forgot about that. They forget about all the money that wasn’t paid. I said, "What about the trillion dollars that you really owe?" So we’re negotiating let’s see, but in the meantime, we’re reducing our troops.
Remember this, we’re supposed to protect Germany from Russia, but Germany is paying Russia, billions of dollars for energy coming from a brand new pipeline. So they pay the country we’re supposed to protect them from, they pay billions of dollars to that country. We’re supposed to protect them. Excuse me, how does that work? And the great thing is with Jim Inhofe and with James Lankford, likewise, they just said they love you James. When they hear it, they get it. A lot of people don’t get it. They get it. We cannot continue to be ripped off. We’re ripped off by so many countries and we’re stopping it. And that means that a lot of people don’t want me here. They don’t want me. There are a lot of people that don’t want me. They don’t sell a lot of bombs when we’re not dropping bombs on people. You know that, right? It’s called the military industrial complex.
When rioting and looting broke out in our nation’s Capitol, I very quickly deployed the National Guard. I said, "Get them in." After watching for an evening or two, we stopped the violence and restored peace and order to the streets. And last night that had a little breakout. Again, they ripped down a statue that was 110 years old, beautiful piece of art in front of the police precinct with our radical left mayor watching on television. We’re not happy. That’s going to be very expensive for DC. They’re always looking for money. "We need more money. We always need more money." And then they don’t do the proper job. So it’s not going to be good for Mayor Bowser, Mayor Bowser there.
They were heading over to the Jefferson Memorial recently and they wanted to do damage to our great, beautiful Jefferson Memorial. Not going to happen. Don’t worry about it. We have it surrounded with very strong people. The choice in 220 is very simple. Do you want to bow before the left wing mob? Or do you want to stand up tall and proud as Americans. And explain this to the NFL. I like the NFL. I like Roger Goodell, but I didn’t like what he said a week ago. I said, "Where did that come from in the middle of the summer? Nobody’s even asking?" We will never kneel to our national anthem or our great American flag. We will stand proud and we will stand tall. I thought we won that battle with the NFL. The stadiums were emptying out. Did you see those stadiums? It took them a long time to get you back. A lot of people didn’t like that. A lot of people that you wouldn’t even think would care that much. I’ve had people that I said, "These are super left liberals and they didn’t like it."
Joe Biden and the Democrats want to prosecute Americans for going to church, but not for burning a church. They believe you can riot, vandalize and destroy, but you cannot attend a peaceful pro-America rally. They want to punish your thought, but not their violent crimes. They want to abolish bail, abolish and open up your borders. They want open borders, let everyone, and by the way, we’re doing so well. We have a record this month on the borders. Nobody’s coming in. Very few people. And they want to abolish ICE, our great people from ICE who send the roughest toughest, meanest people that you’ve ever seen or ever heard.
Generally speaking, when they have lots of tattoos on their face, they’re not looking to do you much help. ICE, they’re rough guys. they’re great Americans, but they’ll walk into, they caught them in a pack. They’ll walk into a pack of tough MS-13 gang members. And we shouldn’t say this, it’s not nice. They want us to negotiate. They start swinging. And the other such way, everybody’s swinging, at the end, they carry them back and they throw them into the paddy wagon. They’re great. And these people want to get rid of ICE. They get rid of murderers. They get rid of rapists. They get rid of the worst scum on earth.
And when I called them animals, I said, "They’re animals." And Nancy Pelosi, they cut up a young woman. They cut up a young woman and her friend, cut them up with a knife because it was more painful. Dead. Cut them up with a knife because it’s more painful. It takes longer than shooting a gun. They cut them up. I said, "These are animals." And Nancy Pelosi said, "These are human beings. They’re not animals." If I lose an election over that, you know what? This country is in big trouble. They want to disarm law, abiding citizens and dismantle our police forces while freeing vicious MS-13 gang members. In Joe Biden’s America, rioters, looters, and criminal aliens have more rights than law abiding citizens. And that’s true. In my administration, we defend American citizens and we deport MS-13 members or put them in jail if we have to. The chaos you’re seeing in our democratic run cities, these are all run by the Democrats, is what will happen in every city and community and America, and much, much worse if we don’t keep them out. We have to do this. We have to go to the polls on November 3rd and the rest of you know what to do. You know what to do. Got to keep the White House. Joe Biden’s record can be summed up as four decades of betrayal, calamity, and failure. He never did anything. He was a Senator. He was a Vice President. He was before that something. You know what’s great? President. Trump was tough on this or he was tough. They complained, never did anything about it. He’s been there for 43 years or 47 years. He never did anything about it. Biden’s supported every globalist attack on the American worker let’s make every country of the world rich but ourselves, including NAFTA, the disaster of NAFTA. He wanted to go and TPP would have ruined our automobile industry.
Korea, I renegotiated the deal. I took a horrible deal. That was a Hillary Clinton special. That was a Hillary Clinton special. She said, "We have to make this deal with South Korea. It’s going to mean 250,000 jobs." And she was right for South Korea, 250,000. And China’s entry into the World Trade Organization was supported by sleepy Joe Biden. That was one of the worst deals economically in the history of our country. When China joined the World Trade Organization, they were flat line for decades. They became like a rocket ship. He voted for the war in Iraq. He voted for mass amnesty for illegal aliens. He supports sanctuary cities and now Biden wants to end immigration enforcement and he wants to require you to provide free healthcare for millions and millions of illegal aliens.
When I took early and decisive action to ban travel from China and protect Americans from the virus. And as I said, Joe Biden, opposed my decision and called it hysteria, xenophobia. He doesn’t know what the word means, xenophobia and fear-mongering. And then he apologized a month later. He said he was wrong, but he didn’t say it. And they didn’t cover it. They didn’t cover it. On one of the single most important policy decisions of our lifetime, Joe Biden sided with China over America, that’s closing the border. He thought it was a terrible thing. Remember, this was in January. That’s early, real, early, the end of January. He thought it was a terrible thing. When we close the border. Too many people that were badly infected with COVID.
When the chips are down, Biden will always cave to the radical left. He’ll always bow to the angry mob and he will never protect you or your family and you know that. Joe Biden will always let you down. That’s been his history. At my direction early this year, the heroes of the U.S. military took out the world’s top terrorist, the savage killer leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi and the number one terrorist, anywhere in the world, Qasem Soleimani. We took them out. Joe Biden opposed killing Soleimani. He was vehemently We killed this number one, terrorist. He didn’t like it. You know why he didn’t like it? Because he thought it would be good politically, that didn’t work out too well. Just as he opposed the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. He opposed it, you know that. Biden is always on the wrong side of history, as said by people that are with him and worked with him. He never made a correct foreign policy decision. Biden is a puppet for China. Son walked out with 1.5 billion. I think it’s a little bit
Allowing them to rip off America for many years. Now they’re paying us billions and billions of dollars. We give a lot of it to our farmers. We have plenty leftover. China is not exactly happy with me. They pay us billions and billions of dollars. And they targeted our great farmers. And I took the money that they targeted, I took that money and I gave it to the farmers. So they were even so they’re okay. Are you okay? Come, Doctor, please. Doctor. Thank you. These people some of the people are waiting for five days, especially in this location. You take your time, darling, take your time.
God bless you, Trump.
Thank you very much. Take your time. Doctor, thank you, doctor. Some people wait for four or five days. That’s incredible. He never did anything against China, Joe Biden. And that’s why they desperately want him to win. They want him to win so badly. Iran wants him to win so badly. Let me tell you, I’m going to make a very fast deal. The best deal you’ve ever seen. I’ve already made one with China, but I can make even more. They want me to lose because they will own the United States if I lose. Iran. President Obama gave them $150 billion for nothing.
And almost more incredible, he gave him 1.8 billion in green cash. Beautiful cash. And now they’re not doing so well, are they? They’re not doing so well. Someday, we’re going to get credit for this, someday, but they are waiting. Iran wants to make a deal so badly. But they’re told by Carey and all these other, they shouldn’t the Logan Act, but they’re told Carey and all these people, "Wait, because if Trump loses you’ll own America, you’re going to own it." They’ll say you own it. So I don’t mind. I told them we can wait, but when I win, you’re going to pay a much higher price than if you made a deal.
I told them. And look what happened to Biden in Ukraine where his son’s paid $83,000 a month. And he was jobless. Give me a break. $83,000 a month. More than anybody. If Joe Biden were to become president an emboldened left, will launch a full scale assault on American life. You know that. They’ll expel anyone who disagrees with them. Look what happens when you disagree. You use a term that’s perfect and they’re not happy with it. They call you a racist. They call you a horrible person. They want to crush religious liberty. They don’t want religion. Silence religious believers, indoctrinate your children with hateful and vicious lies about our country, subsidize late term abortion and after birth execution.
They want to take away your guns through the repeal of your Second Amendment, as sure as you’re sitting there. In fact, he even put the big gun grabber, Beto O’Rourke, who made a fool out of himself when he ran for president. They put him in charge of guns. Lots of luck on your Second Amendment. Just remember I said, and hopefully you won’t have to think back about it too much, because it won’t matter. Hopefully it won’t matter. No, Beto O’Rourke who wants to give up guns is in charge of the second amendment. The Dems will also eliminate private health insurance, ban fracking, that’s not good, and American energy will be in a position of weakness like it’s never been before. And that’s after we built the greatest energy country anywhere in the world by far.
And they want to appoint Supreme Court justices who will utterly obliterate your Constitution. And you now see how important the Supreme Court is. Think if we didn’t have two justices, that I think have been very, very, very good, but think how important it is. Think how important it is. And we still, I guess it’s a, I don’t know if it’s an equal court, it’s almost like we’re a minority court, right? It’s almost like we’re a minority court. The recent Supreme Court cases prove that if Joe Biden is elected, he will stack the court with extremists, the forgotten men and women, together with everyone else. We’ll lose everything. The forgotten men and women, I campaigned on the forgotten. These are great people. These are substantial people. These are the elite. By the way, you’re the elite. They’re not the elite. You’re the elite.
Somebody two days ago said, "Sir, the elite are really working hard on trying to destroy you." I said, "Yeah, why do you call them the elite," I said, "why?" "Well, they’re not elite." I look better than them. Much more handsome. Got better hair than they do. I got nicer properties. I got nicer houses. I got nicer apartments. I got nicer everything. I ran for politics once, just once in my life. And I became President of the United States. And hopefully if you get out and vote, we’ll do it one more time. We won’t even toy with them about three or four more times. We won’t. We’ll do it one more time. We’ll be two for two. And our country will never, ever be stronger.
But I’ll be soon announcing a new list of exceptional candidates for the United States Supreme Court. And I’ll choose only from that list. A hundred percent, probably 25 incredible people, any one of which could be a great justice, any one of which. And I did it last time and people loved when I did it. And I’ll only pick from that list. Biden can’t release his list because the names would be too extreme, too radical. They wouldn’t be acceptable, but they will be very radical people. People don’t understand, but we actually won on DACA yesterday. We actually won because they basically said, "You won, but you have to come back and redo it." It’s almost like, "Gee, come on back, your paperwork was no good." But we’re going to be refiling, but don’t let it get you. Everything’s going to work out really good. Everything’s going to work out good.
It was a great, it was great. I mean, would have been nice if we won. And Everybody said, "Oh, you’re going to win DACA. You’re going to win DACA. That’s easy. You got to win DACA. That’s easy." They all said it. And they came back and they said, "We don’t like what you did with your paperwork," essentially. So we’re re-filing it. Most people would say we lost. We didn’t lose. We’re going to refile it. And everything is going to work out for the young people. Most of whom aren’t so young anymore, by the way. But we’re going to work it out for everybody. Biden is fully controlled by the fringe of his party. He is their pawn. He doesn’t even know where the hell he is. Let’s face it. He installed socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.
To be in charge of his environmental policy and his energy. Energy, you can forget petroleum. How does Oklahoma feel about being petroleum free? Not good, right? Our country will have no energy. Our country will have nothing. Oklahoma, Texas, North Dakota, and many others will all be out of business. I don’t think that’s going to work out too well, but she’s actually in charge of environmental policy. And you know what that means. She doesn’t even want to win. She doesn’t want those bird killing machines that go round and round. You want to see a lot of birds that are dead? Go under a windmill sometime. She wants us to go back to the stone ages because she’s got no sense, no credentials. She’s got a little charisma, not much, but she doesn’t have a clue. You know it. But she’s in charge of the environment. No airplanes. We can forget Boeing, I guess, come to think of it. We talked about Boeing. We could forget Boeing. Let’s cancel those brand new Air Force Ones.
Likewise, Representative Ilhan Omar is going to be very much involved in a Biden government. They will put this hate filled America, bashing socialist, front and center in deciding the fate of your family and deciding the fate of your country. I don’t think she would like to make the government of our country just like the country from where she came, Somalia. No government, no safety, no police, no nothing. Just anarchy. And now she’s telling us how to run our country. No thank you. And I think we’re going to have a big victory in the state of Minnesota, because they’ve had it. They’ve had it.
Biden is a very willing Trojan horse for socialism. When Biden first ran for president over 33 years ago, remember I used to call him 1% Joe, he never got more than 1% until Obama took him off the trash heap. But he blatantly copied the speech of a British politician, even ripping off the man’s personal biography and family history and claiming it was his own. He forgot to say he was born in America. Joe Biden is a shameless hypocrite. Since 2003, he has delivered fawning eulogies to the funeral. And at those funerals of three leading supporters of segregation, including a former member of the KKK, and yet Biden is now smearing as racist, tens of millions of people like yourselves. Decent, hardworking Americans who he’s never met. And he frankly probably doesn’t want to meet. America should not take lectures on racial justice from Joe Biden. Sleepy Joe. A man who praised and partnered with segregationists, shift millions of black American jobs overseas, and everyone else’s jobs too by the way. If I didn’t come along, we’re building auto plants, we’re building everything. And there’s never been a comeback like we’re making right now. Never been.
He hollowed out our middle class, including our black middle class with open borders. Trapped young children in failing government schools, built cages. Those cages were built by Obama and Biden. Look it up, 2014. And the fake news doesn’t wanted to Remember the picture of the cage? A cage for children. Remember the picture of the cage. And they said President Trump. And then they realized that was at a newspaper, 2014, the same Built by Obama and Biden, the cages. And they don’t-
And they don’t want to report the way it is. They know the way it is. They’re not stupid. They sent young boys to fight in Iraq while the inner cities crumble, helped the big banks while hammering community leaders, and made our cities less safe and secure for all. They’ve done a terrible job and they shouldn’t be awarded. They should not get rewarded with an election victory on November 3rd, that shouldn’t happen. It’ll destroy this country. Our country will be destroyed. We’ve all worked too hard. They don’t know what the hell they’re doing. Some do actually, but in a very sinister way. Virtually every policy that has hurt black Americans for half a century, Joe Biden has supported or enacted. I’ve done more for the black community in four years than Joe Biden has done in 47 years.
Racial justice begins with Joe Biden’s retirement from public life. We are joined tonight by many outstanding Republican leaders. These are great people. We have two of our most distinguished, hardworking, wonderful friends, senators. They do a great job. Senator Jim Inhofe and James Lankford, please stand up. Two very respected, I will tell you, two very respected people in Washington. They’re respected by everybody. They do some job, and I’d have you come up, but you can relax. I will say this. Jim is running on November 3rd, Jim Inhofe. He’s running on November 3rd. I don’t even know. Does he Hey, James? Does he have any competition? Is somebody actually running against There’s no competition that he’s got. I know he’s got James’ support. He’s got my support. I give him 100% endorsement. Jim Inhofe. I’d give it to James too, but he’s not running this time. Thank you. Jim, great job. Thank you very much. What a great Senator he is.
Also here is a man who’s respected by so many. He’s a little bit right of the people we’ve been talking about tonight. Senator Tom Cotton of the great state of Arkansas. Thank you, Tom. They like you people.
Patriot.
Thank you, Tom. Great job you’re doing. We’re glad to be joined as well by a man that I’ve gotten to know. He’s done an incredible job with COVID and with everything else he touches, Governor Kevin Stitt. Thank you both. Thank you both for being here. Thank you. Lieutenant Governor Matt Pinnell. Thanks, Matt. Thanks, Matt. And Representatives Frank Lucas, Tom Cole. He’s been here for a little while. He’s done an incredible job. Markwayne Mullin, you don’t want to fight with him. I want to put him and Jim Jordan in a match together, I want to. Kevin Hern, great job today, Kevin. The great Jim Jordan, Jim Jordan. Elise Stefanik. Lee Zeldin. Tom Emmer. Tom, thank you. These are warriors, folks. These are great warriors. During the fake impeachment trial, I’ll tell you what. There was nobody that could have done the job they’ve done. That includes the Senate and the House. These people are incredible.
David Kustoff. David. A great friend of mine. Debbie Lesko, Arizona. Great job, Debbie. Great job. And a man who’s got very good genes, Greg Pence. Thank you all. Great job. They’re great They are, they’re warriors. I’ll tell you what. Not every person is, but this group is, and we have a lot of them in Washington, and we’ll send Jim Inhofe back, and we’ll send all of them. You’ll send every one of them. They have to come back because they have been fighting for us, and they’ve been fighting for you. And they are just incredible, talented, tough, strong people that love your state a lot. So thank you very much.
So we built the greatest single economy in the world. And then we say not only the world, but actually in the history of the world, and they never even challenged me. So I guess I’m right. We did it. We had the best numbers anybody’s ever had. We have the best employment numbers, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, the best employment numbers in history, the best stock market numbers in history. We were the envy of the world. Everybody would come in to see me, presidents, prime minister, kings, queens, and dictators. Dictators would even come in to say congratulations on the economy. And then the plague came in, and now what we’re doing is we’re doing it again. And it’s going fast. We have to have a lot of it done because people don’t quite get it. We’re doing record business. It’s happening at a level and a speed that nobody can believe.
Two weeks ago, job numbers came in the single biggest number in the history of our country. Last week, retail sales numbers came in, retail sales, the single greatest number in the history of our country. So here’s what’s going to happen. Here’s what’s going to happen. They blame a President for anything. When you see looters, even though we put them down, if we didn’t stop them, nobody would because the other side will never stop them. But they always blame a President. Here’s what’s happening. We’re going up. We’re going up. We’re going up. We’re going to go up. Then we’re going to hit October. We’re going to be up. We’re going to be way up. We’re not going to be where we were, but in many ways, other than all of the horrible, horrible death that was so needlessly caused by a virus that should have been stopped where it originated, which was China.
But we’re going to go up, up, up, up August, September, October, and people are going to say, "Man, this guy is doing a good job. He knows what he’s doing. I don’t believe the fake news anymore." And you’re not going to want to lose your 401k’s. And you’re not going to want to lose all of that wealth that you’ve accumulated, whether it’s real estate wealth or any wealth you can think because it’ll all come tumbling down if these people are put in charge. And if they double and triple and quadruple your taxes, it will be a whole different ball game. So I’m not putting any pressure on anybody, but in the end, we’re going to have a phenomenal economy. And next year we’re going to have a good third quarter, but next year, and I said it before, will be the single greatest year economically that we’ve ever had, okay?
And if you see that happening, if you see it happening on November 3rd, you don’t have the guts to vote against Trump. You, even you, you don’t have the guts to vote against Trump. Say, "Wait a minute, darling. My 401k is higher than it was the last time. I don’t think I want to take a chance." You’re not going to want to do that. The stock market has been the best. Think of this, go back one week and go back 50 days. In that 50 day period, it’s the strongest 50 days in the history of the stock market, think of it. And your wife or your husband says, "Darling, I love you so much. You are such a great investor." And all you did is just keep the same crap you had the first time, right? "Darling, I love you so much. You’ve always been a loser. You’ve always lost money. But now under President Trump, you’re one of the greatest financial minds in our country." And all you did was keep your stock.
Now, if you think you’re going to run against Oh, they’re going crazy. They want the stock market to go down. Even if it costs them money, they want the stock market to go down even if it costs them money, and they don’t even know why. You know what, they’re smart and they’re vicious, but they don’t know why. I’m telling you, they don’t know why. What’s wrong with having the strongest military brand new in the world? What’s wrong with having these great economic numbers? What’s wrong with having to close it down? We saved millions of lives. You know, a lot of people say we should have gone herd, let’s go herd. Ask them how are they doing in Brazil. He’s a great friend of mine, not good. You heard about Sweden, right? Too much. Ask them how they do it in Sweden. We saved millions of lives, and now it’s time to open up, get back to work, okay? Get back to work.
I recently signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform. I secured record and permanent funding for historically black colleges and universities. We slashed regulations and passed massive tax cuts to give black workers a pay raise like they’ve never, ever gotten before and lift up black owned businesses. And I worked closely with a great senator also, friend of theirs, Senator Tim Scott, South Carolina, to create opportunity zones, which are doing incredibly. And since then countless jobs and $100 billion of new investment, not government investment, have poured into 9,000 of our most distressed neighborhoods anywhere in the country. 9,000, never happened before. Tim Scott. Today. I’m also announcing that I have directed Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt to place the John Hope Franklin Reconciliation Park here in Tulsa on the African American Civil Rights Network. So many of my friends have been asking me to do that. So many of my friends, including these great politicians. So we’re going to do that. It’ll be done very quickly.
We will forever remember and honor the courageous people who helped build this state and this country. Democrats are stoking division in order to distract from their decades of failure on schools, jobs, housing, justice, and crime. In major city public schools run by Democrats, over two thirds of students are falling behind in reading and math. And I think the numbers are worse than that. But Democrats would rather deny these children the future they deserve than allow them to attend the charter, public, private, religious, or independent schools of their choice. Pro choice, pro choice. Pro choice for schools. It’s very popular, but some people it’s like a disaster because what it does to certain unions that have a lot of power over the Democrats, even though they know it’s wrong.
Republicans believe access to education is a civil right. It’s a civil rights. 20 of 20 of the most dangerous cities in America are controlled by Democrats. Think of that, 20 of 20. And so is nearly every major city with a child poverty rate that’s over 30%. They’re controlled by Democrats. We can name every one of them. The murder rate in Baltimore and Detroit is higher than El Salvador, Guatemala, or even Afghanistan. How are they doing, the Democrats running those cities? Your whole country will be like that. In 2018 alone, our police arrested nearly 12,000 people for murder and manslaughter, 25,000 people for rape, and nearly 1.5 million for assault, violent assault. The Democrats’ push against our police will drive up crime and drive up costs at levels you’d never believe. Thousands of innocent lives will be lost. As President, I will always support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
A vote for Republicans is a vote for better schools, better jobs, safer families, and stronger communities for all Americans. There is a limit to what we can together achieve with four more years. With your help, we will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. That’s what’s happening, that’s what’s happening. And that was happening at a level that nobody ever thought they’d see, it was happening before this COVID came in. It was happening at a level that nobody believed possible. And then China sent us the plague, thank you very much. We will protect Medicare and Social Security for our great seniors. And we’ll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Always, always. We will appoint more judges to interpret the Constitution as written. We will end deadly sanctuary cities. We will finish the wall, which has now 212 miles built and beautiful.
212 mile. That’s a lot of miles. And let me tell you, you think that was an easy one, that was a tough one. That party was totally unified against building the wall. You know, in the end they gave up, you know what happened? They realized it was a bad issue for them because these open borders. I love when they fight for open borders because anybody that wants an open border coming in from rough areas, there’s something wrong with those people. So did you notice in the end it was like, "Just leave us alone, build your wall, just leave us alone." I said, "Thank you very much."
And we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration that puts American workers first. We will revitalize our cities, and we will build gleaming new roads, bridges, tunnels, and airports all across our land. We will enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, Made in the USA. It’s so beautiful, so beautiful. Made in the USA. That’s happening too. We have so many plants coming into Michigan and so many other states. We have car plants coming in would have never come if I wasn’t President, would have never come. We will become the world’s premier pharmacy, drug store, and medical manufacturer. That’s already started. We’re bringing it back. We will keep America out of foolish, stupid, ridiculous foreign wars. We will never hesitate to kill America’s terrorist enemies.
When I took over, ISIS was all over the place, and I did something that I felt we should do. And we have now obliterated, we have now captured 100% of the ISIS caliphate. 100, 100. And like our depleted military when I took over, like our empty shelves, medically, when I took over, like all of the things that when I took over, it was a mess, we have done a job. You had to see what ISIS was doing. They were getting bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger. I came in, smaller, smaller, smaller. "Sir, we’ve just taken 100%." We will launch a new age of American ambition in space. And the United States will be the first nation to land on Mars, good program. You saw the beautiful rocket three weeks ago go up, beautiful. We will defend privacy, free thought, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. And when you see those lunatics all over the streets, it’s damn nice to have arms. Damn nice. Interesting how all of a sudden people understand it, right? You couldn’t sell it. Now people understand it. The right to keep and bear arms, we’ll protect your second amendment. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America, we will support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We uphold the principle of equal justice under the law. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always salute our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto, it will never change, "In God we trust." We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industries. Won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And we are making it greater and greater every single day. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning the power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America will soon be thriving, like never before because, ladies and gentlemen of Oklahoma, the best is yet to come. Together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you, Oklahoma. Thank you.
and the upcoming Arbor Day and that’s going to be Tell me David. That’s right. Friday. Thank you. As more than 180 nations around the world battle the vicious coronavirus, we continue to mourn the precious souls who have been lost, so sadly lost, and so unnecessarily lost. It should have been stopped and it should’ve been stopped right where it started, and everyone knows where it started.
But in this time of trial, the beauty of springtime fills us with the peace and the hope of renewal. We’re pleased to be joined by our great Vice President, Mike Pence. Please Mike, stand up. You have done such a great job on getting us open again. We’re opening again, Mike. It’s starting to move. A lot of states are in great shape and they’re starting to move it along. And very importantly, Karen Pence has been so fantastic and done such a great job representing the country. Thank you, Karen. Beautiful job.
Also here are Secretaries David Bernhardt, Sonny Perdue, Administrator Wheeler, Andrew Wheeler. Thank you. And Leader, Kevin McCarthy, and what a job he’s done and good vote the other day, yesterday. That was good. But previous to that. And when are you voting on the.
To unleash the full power of the federal government in this effort today, I am officially declaring a National Emergency. Two very big words. The action I am taking will open up access to up to 50 billion dollars of very important and a large amount of money for states and territories and localities in our shared fight against this disease.
In furtherance of the order, I’m urging every state to set up emergency operation centers effective immediately. You’re going to be hearing from some of the largest companies and greatest retailers and medical companies in the world. They’re standing right behind me and the side of me. I’m also asking every hospital in this country to activate its emergency preparedness plan so that they can meet the needs of Americans everywhere. The hospitals are very engaged. New York and various other places are also various engaged. I just spoke with governor Cuomo. We had a very good conversation and we’re working very strongly with the many states including New York.
The urgency orders I’m issuing today will also confer broad new authority to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The Secretary of HHS will be able to immediately wave revisions of applicable laws and regulations to give doctors, hospital all hospitals and healthcare providers, maximum flexibility to respond to the virus and care for patients. This includes the following critical authorities, the ability to waive laws to enable telehealth, a fairly new and incredible thing that’s happened in the not so distant past. I tell you what they’ve done with telehealth has incredible. It gives remote doctors visits and hospital check-ins the power to waive certain federal license requirements so that doctors from other states can provide services in states with the greatest need.
Number two, the ability to waive requirements that critical access hospitals limit the number of beds to 25 and the length of stay to 96 hours. The ability to waive the requirements of a three day hospital stay prior to admission to a nursing home; big thing. The authority to waive rules to hinder hospital’s ability to bring additional physicians on board or obtain needed office space. They can do as they want. They can do what they have to do. They know what they have to do. Now they don’t have any problem getting it done.
The authority to waive rules that severely restrict where hospitals can care for patients within the hospital itself. Ensuring that the emergency capacity can be quickly established. We’ll remove or eliminate every obstacle necessary to deliver our people the care that they need and that they’re entitled to. No resource will be spared. Nothing whatsoever. 10 days ago, I brought together the CEOs of commercial labs at the White House and directed them to immediately begin working on the solution to dramatically increase the availability of tests.
Other countries have called us and worked with us and they’re doing similar things or will be doing similar things as a result of that action. Today we are announcing a new partnership with private sector to vastly increase and accelerate our capacity to test for the Coronavirus. We want to make sure that those who need a test can get a test very safely, quickly and conveniently but we don’t want people to take a test if we feel that they shouldn’t be doing it and we don’t want everyone running out and taking; only if you have certain symptoms.
Using federal emergency authorities, the FDA approved a new test for the virus. We did this within hours after receiving the application from Roche, a process that would normally take weeks. We therefore expect up to a half a million additional tests will be available early next week. We’ll be announcing locations probably on Sunday night. I want to thank Roche, great company for their incredible work. I’d also like to thank Thermo Fisher. The FDA’s goal is to hopefully authorize your application within 24 hours. It’ll go very quickly. It’s going very quickly. Which will bring additionally 1.4 million tests on board next week and five million within a month. I doubt we’ll need anywhere near that.
At the same time, we’ve been in discussions with pharmacies and retailers to make drive-through tests available in the critical locations identified by public health professionals. The goal is for individuals to be able to drive up and be swabbed without having to leave your car. I want to thank Google. Google is helping to develop a website. It’s going to be very quickly done, unlike websites of the past, to determine whether a test is warranted and to facilitate testing at a nearby convenient location. And we have many, many locations behind us, by the way. We cover this country and large parts of the world, by the way. We’re not going to be talking about the world right now. But we cover very, very strongly our country.
Stores in virtually every location. Google has 1,700 engineers working on this right now. They’ve made tremendous progress. Our overriding goal is to stop the spread of the virus and to help all Americans who have been impacted by this. Again, we don’t want everybody taking this test. It’s totally unnecessary. And this will pass. This will pass through and we’re going to be even stronger for it. We’ve learned a lot, a tremendous amount has been learned. I want to thank Deborah Birx and I want to ask her maybe to come up and say a few words as to what’s happening. Dr. Birx is a highly respected person. I’ve gotten to know her very well over the last six days and what we’ve done is we built something that was very old, very old fashioned, somewhat obsolete, certainly obsolete when it comes to the kind of numbers that we’re talking about. Dr. Birx, please. Thank you, Deborah.
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States, and my fellow citizens, three years ago we launched the great American comeback. Tonight I stand before you to share the incredible results. Jobs are booming, incomes are soaring, poverty is plummeting, crime is falling, confidence is surging and our country is thriving and highly respected again. America’s enemies are on the run. America’s fortunes are on the rise and America’s future is blazing bright. The years of economic decay are over. The days of our country being used, taken advantage of and even scorned by other nations are long behind us. Gone too are the broken promises, jobless recoveries, tired platitudes and constant excuses for the depletion of American wealth, power, and prestige.
In just three short years, we have shattered the mentality of American decline and we have rejected the downsizing of American’s destiny. We have totally rejected the downsizing. We are moving forward at a pace that was unimaginable just a short time ago and we are never ever going back. I am thrilled to report to you tonight that our economy is the best it has ever been. Our military is completely rebuilt, with its power being unmatched anywhere in the world and it’s not even close. Our borders are secure. Our families are flourishing. Our values are renewed. Our pride is restored. And for all of these reasons I say to the people of our great country and to the members of Congress, the state of our union is stronger than ever before. The vision I will lay out this evening demonstrates how we are building the world’s most prosperous and inclusive society. One where every citizen can join in America’s unparalleled success and where every community can take part in America’s extraordinary rise. From the instant I took office, I moved rapidly to revive the US economy, slashing a record number of job killing regulations, enacting historic and record setting tax cuts, and fighting for fair and reciprocal trade agreements. Our agenda is relentlessly pro-worker, pro-family, pro-growth, and most of all pro-American. Thank you. We are advancing with unbridled optimism and lifting our citizens of every race, color, religion and creed very, very high.
Since my election, we have created 7 million new jobs, 5 million more than government experts projected during the previous administration. The unemployment rate is the lowest in over half a century. And very incredibly, the average unemployment rate under my administration is lower than any administration in the history of our country. If we hadn’t reversed the failed economic policies of the previous administration, the world would not now be witnessing this great economic success. The unemployment for African Americans, Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans has reached the lowest levels in history. African American youth unemployment has reached an all time low. African American poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded.
The unemployment rate for women reached the lowest level in almost 70 years and last year women filled 72% of all new jobs added. The veteran’s unemployment rate dropped to a record low. The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached an all time low. Workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment rate recorded in US history. A record number of young Americans are now employed. Under the last administration, more than 10 million people were added to the food stamp rolls. Under my administration, 7 million Americans have come off food stamps and 10 million people have been lifted off of welfare.
In eight years, under the last administration, over 300,000 working age people dropped out of the workforce. In just three years of my administration, 3.5 million people, working age people, have joined the workforce. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. After decades of flat and falling incomes, wages are rising fast and wonderfully they are rising fastest for low income workers who have seen a 16% pay increase since my election. This is a blue collar boom. Real median household income is now at the highest level ever recorded.
Since my election, US stock markets have soared 70%, adding more than $12 trillion to our nation’s wealth, transcending anything anyone believed was possible. This is a record, it is something that every country in the world is looking up to, they admire. Consumer confidence has just reached amazing new highs. All of those millions of people with 401ks and pensions are doing far better than they have ever done before with increases of 60, 70, 80, 90 and 100% and even more. Jobs and investments are pouring into 9,000 previously neglected neighborhoods, thanks to Opportunity Zones, a plan spearheaded by Senator Tim Scott, as part of our great Republican tax cuts. In other words, wealthy people and companies are pouring money into poor neighborhoods or areas that haven’t seen investment in many decades, creating jobs, energy and excitement. This is the first time that these deserving communities have seen anything like this. It’s all working. Opportunity Zones are helping Americans like Army veteran, Tony Rankins from Cincinnati, Ohio. After struggling with drug addiction, Tony lost his job, his house and his family. He was homeless, but then Tony found a construction company that invests in Opportunity Zones. He is now a top tradesman, drug free, reunited with his family and he is here tonight. Tony, keep up the great work. Tony. Thank you Tony.
Our roaring economy has for the first time ever, given many former prisoners the ability to get a great job and a fresh start. This second chance at life is made possible because we passed Landmark Criminal Justice Reform into law. Everybody said that criminal justice reform couldn’t be done, but I got it done and the people in this room got it done. Thanks to our bold regulatory reduction campaign, the United States has become the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world by far. With the tremendous progress we have made over the past three years, America is now energy independent and energy jobs, like so many other elements of our country, are at a record high. We are doing numbers that no one would have thought possible just three years ago. Likewise, we are restoring our nations manufacturing might, even though predictions were, as you all know, that this could never ever be done. After losing 60,000 factories under the previous two administrations, America has now gained 12,000 new factories under my administration, with thousands upon thousands of plants and factories being planned or being built. Companies are not leaving, they are coming back to the USA. The fact is that everybody wants to be where the action is and the United States of America is indeed the place where the action is.
One of the biggest promises I made to the American people was to replace the disastrous NAFTA trade deal. In fact, unfair trade is perhaps the single biggest reason that I decided to run for President. Following NAFTA as adoption, our nation lost one in four manufacturing jobs. Many politicians came and went, pledging to change or replace NAFTA, only to do so and then absolutely nothing happened. But unlike so many who came before me, I keep my promises. We did our job. Six days ago, I replaced NAFTA and signed the brand new United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement into law. The USMCA will create nearly 100,000 new high paying American auto jobs and massively boost exports for our farmers, ranchers, and factory workers.
It will also bring trade with Mexico and Canada to a much higher level. But also to be a much greater degree of fairness and reciprocity, we will have that fairness and reciprocity. And I say that finally, because it’s been many, many years that we were treated fairly on trade. This is the first major trade deal in many years to earn the strong backing of America’s labor unions. I also promised our citizens that I would impose tariffs to confront China’s massive theft of America’s jobs. Our strategy has worked. Days ago we signed the groundbreaking new agreement with China, that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, bring billions and billions of dollars into our treasury and open vast new markets for products made and grown right here in the USA. For decades, China has taken advantage of the United States. Now we have changed that, but at the same time we have perhaps the best relationship we’ve ever had with China, including with president Xi. They respect what we’ve done because quite frankly, they could never really believe that they were able to get away with what they were doing year after year, decade after decade, without someone in our country stepping up and saying, "That’s enough." Now we want to rebuild our country and that’s exactly what we’re doing. We are rebuilding our country. As we restore American leadership throughout the world, we are once again standing up for freedom in our hemisphere. That’s why my administration reversed the failing policies of the previous administration on Cuba. We are supporting the hopes of Cubans, Nicaraguans and Venezuelans to restore democracy. The United States is leading a 59 nation diplomatic coalition against the socialist dictator of Venezuela, Nicolas Maduro. Maduro is an illegitimate ruler, a tyrant who brutalizes his people, but Maduro’s grip tyranny will be smashed and broken.
Here this evening, is a very brave man who carries with him the hopes, dreams, and aspirations of all Venezuelans. Joining us in the gallery is the true and legitimate President of Venezuela, Juan Guido, Mr. President, please take this message back to your opponent. Thank you, Mr. President, a great honor. Thank you very much. Please take this message back that all Americans are United with the Venezuelan people in their righteous struggle for freedom. Thank you very much Mr. President. Thank you very much. Socialism destroys nations, but always remember freedom unifies the soul.
To safeguard American liberty, we have invested a record breaking $2.2 trillion in the United States military. We have purchased the finest planes, missiles, rocket ships, and every other form of military equipment and it’s all made right here in the USA. We’re also getting our allies finally, to help pay their fair share. I have raised contributions from other NATO members by more than $400 billion and the number of allies meeting their minimum obligations has more than doubled. And just weeks ago, for the first time since President Truman established the Air Force more than 70 years earlier, we created a brand new branch of the United States armed forces. It’s called the Space Force. It’s very important.
In the gallery tonight, we have a young gentleman and what he wants so badly 13 years old, Iain Lanphier. He’s an eighth grader from Arizona. Iain, please stand up. Iain has always dreamed of going to space. He was the first in his class and among the youngest at an aviation academy. He aspires to go to the Air Force Academy and then he has his eye on the Space Force. As Iain says, "Most people look up at space. I want to look down on the world." But sitting behind Iain tonight is his greatest hero of them all, Charles McGee, who was born in Cleveland Ohio, one century ago. Charles is one of the last surviving Tuskegee airman, the first black fighter pilots, and
Eggy Airman, the first black fighter pilots, and he also happens to be Ian’s great grandfather. Incredible story. After more than 130 combat missions in World War II, he came back home to a country still struggling for civil rights and went on to serve America in Korea and Vietnam. On December 7th Charles celebrated his 100th birthday. A few weeks ago, I signed a bill promoting Charles McGee to Brigadier General. And earlier today I pinned the stars on his shoulders in the Oval Office. General McGee, our nation salutes you. Thank you sir. From the pilgrims to the founders, from the soldiers at Valley Forge to the marchers at Selma and from President Lincoln to the Reverend Martin Luther King, Americans have always rejected limits on our children’s future. Members of Congress we must never forget that the only victories that matter in Washington are victories that deliver for the American people.
The people are the heart of our country. Their dreams are the soul of our country, and their love is what powers and sustains our country. We must always remember that our job is to put America first.
The next step forward and building an inclusive society is making sure that every young American gets a great education and the opportunity to achieve the American dream. Yet, for too long, countless American children have been trapped in failing government schools. To rescue these students 18 States have created school choice in the form of opportunity scholarships. The programs are so popular that tens of thousands of students remain on a waiting list. One of those students is Jenaya Davis, a fourth grader from Philadelphia, Jenaya.
Jenaya’s mom Stephanie is a single parent. She would do anything to give her daughter a better future, but last year that future was put further out of reach when Pennsylvania’s governor vetoed legislation to expand school choice to 50,000 children. Jenaya and Stephanie are in the gallery. Stephanie, thank you so much for being here with your beautiful daughter. Thank you very much.
But Jenaya I have some good news for you because I am pleased to inform you that your long wait is over. I can proudly announced tonight that an opportunity scholarship has become available. It’s going to you and you will soon be heading to the school of your choice. Now I call on Congress to give one million American children the same opportunity, Jenaya has just received. Pass the Education Freedom Scholarships and Opportunity Act because no parents should be forced to send their child to a failing government school.
Every young person should have a safe and secure environment in which to learn and to grow. For this reason, our magnificent first lady has launched The Be Best initiative to advance a safe, healthy, supportive and drug free life for the next generation online in school and in our communities. Thank you, Melania, for your extraordinary love and profound care for America’s children. Thank you very much. My administration is determined to give our citizens the opportunities they need regardless of age or background. Through our pledge to American workers over 400 companies will also provide new jobs and education opportunities to almost 15 million Americans. My budget also contains an exciting vision for our nation’s high schools. Tonight, I ask Congress to support our students and back my plan to offer vocational and technical education in every single high school in America. To expand equal opportunity, I am also proud that we achieved record and permanent funding for our nation’s historically black colleges and universities. A good life for American families also requires the most affordable, innovative and high quality healthcare system on earth. Before I took office health insurance premiums had more than doubled in just five years. I moved quickly to provide affordable alternatives. Our new plans are up to 60% less expensive and better. I’ve also made an Ironclad Pledge to American families. We will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. And we will always protect your Medicare and we will always protect your Social Security, always.
The American patients should never be blindsided by medical bills. That is why I signed an executive order requiring price transparency. Many experts believe that transparency, which will go into full effect at the beginning of next year will be even bigger than healthcare reform. It will save families massive amounts of money for substantially better care, but as we work to improve Americans health care, there are those who want to take away your healthcare, take away your doctor, and abolish private insurance entirely. 132 lawmakers in this room have endorsed legislation to impose a socialist takeover of our healthcare system, wiping out the private health insurance plans of 180 million very happy Americans. To those watching at home tonight, I want you to know we will never let socialism destroy American healthcare.
Over 130 legislators in this chamber have endorsed legislation that would bankrupt our nation by providing free taxpayer funded healthcare to millions of illegal aliens forcing taxpayers to subsidize free care for anyone in the world who unlawfully crosses our borders. These proposals would raid the Medicare benefits of our seniors and that our seniors depend on while acting as a powerful lure for illegal immigration. That is what is happening in California and other States. Their systems are totally out of control, costing taxpayers vast and unaffordable amounts of money. If forcing American taxpayers to provide unlimited free healthcare to illegal alien sounds fair to you, then stand with the radical Left. But if you believe that we should defend American patients and American seniors then stand with me and pass legislation to prohibit free government healthcare for illegal aliens.
This will be a tremendous boon to our already very strongly guarded Southern border where as we speak, a long, tall and very powerful wall is being built. We have now completed over 100 miles and have over 500 miles fully completed in a very short period of time. Early next year we will have substantially more than 500 miles completed. My administration is also taking on the big pharmaceutical companies. We have approved a record number of affordable generic drugs and medicines are being approved by the FDA at a faster clip than ever before.
And I was pleased to announce last year that for the first time in 51 years, the costs of prescription drugs actually went down. And working together Congress can reduce drug prices substantially from current levels. I’ve been speaking to Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa and others in Congress in order to get something on drug pricing done and done quickly and properly. I’m calling for bipartisan legislation that achieves the goal of dramatically lowering prescription drug prices. Get a bill on my desk and I will sign it into law immediately. With unyielding commitment we are curbing the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths declined for the first time in nearly 30 years. Among the States hardest hit Ohio is down 22%, Pennsylvania is down 18%, Wisconsin is down 10%, and we will not quit until we have beaten the opioid epidemic once and for all.
Protecting Americans health also means fighting infectious diseases. We are coordinating with the Chinese government and working closely together on the Corona virus outbreak in China. My administration will take all necessary steps to safeguard our citizens from this threat. We have launched ambitious new initiatives to substantially improve care for Americans with kidney disease, Alzheimer’s, and those struggling with mental health. And because Congress was so good as to fund my request, new cures for childhood cancer, and we will eradicate the AIDS epidemic in America by the end of this decade.
Almost every American family knows the pain when a loved one is diagnosed with a serious illness. Here tonight is a special man, beloved by millions of Americans who just received a stage four advanced cancer diagnosis. This is not good news, but what is good news is that he is the greatest fighter and winner that you will ever meet. Rush Limbaugh, thank you for your decades of tireless devotion to our country. And Rush in recognition of all that you have done for our nation, the millions of people a day that you speak to and that you inspire and all of the incredible work that you have done for charity I am proud to announce tonight that you will be receiving our country’s highest civilian honor, The Presidential Medal of Freedom. I will now ask the first lady of the United States to present you with the honor. Please. Rush and Catherine, congratulations. Thank you, Catherine.
As we pray for all who are sick, we know that America is constantly achieving new medical breakthroughs. In 2017 doctors at Saint Luke’s Hospital in Kansas City delivered one of the earliest premature babies ever to survive. Born at just 21 weeks and six days and weighing less than a pound, Ellie Schneider was a born fighter. Through the skill of her doctors and the prayers of her parents, little Ellie kept on winning the battle of life. Today Ellie is a strong, healthy two year old girl sitting with her amazing mother, Robin in the gallery, Ellie and Robin we’re glad to have you with us tonight. Ella reminds us that every child is a miracle of life and thanks to modern medical wonders. 50% of very premature babies delivered at the hospital where Ellie was born now survive. It’s an incredible thing. Thank you very much.
Our goal should be to ensure that every baby has the best chance to thrive and grow just like Ellie. That is why I’m asking Congress to provide an additional $50 million to fund neonatal research for America’s youngest patients. That is why I’m also calling upon members of Congress here tonight to pass legislation finally banning the late term abortion of babies.
Whether we are Republican, Democrat, or Independent, surely we must all agree that every human life is a sacred gift from God. As we support America’s moms and dads, I was recently proud to sign the law providing new parents in the federal workforce, paid family leave, serving as a model for the rest of the country. Now, I call on Congress to pass the bipartisan advancing Support for Working Families Act, extending family leave to mothers and fathers all across our nation. 40 million American families have an average $2,200 extra thanks to our child tax credit.
I’ve also overseen historic funding increases for high quality childcare, enabling 17 States to help more children, many of which have reduced or eliminated their wait lists altogether. And I sent Congress a plan with a vision to further expand access to high quality childcare and urge you to act immediately.
To protect the environment, days ago I announced that the United States will join the 1 Trillion Tree Initiative and ambitious effort to bring together government and private sector to plant new trees in America and all around the world.
We must also rebuild America’s infrastructure. I asked you to pass Senator John Barrasso’s Highway Bill to invest in new roads, bridges, and tunnels all across our land. I’m also committed to ensuring that every citizen can have access to high speed Internet, including and especially in rural America. A better tomorrow for all Americans also requires us to keep America safe. That means supporting the men and women of law enforcement at every level, including our nation’s heroic ICE officers.
Last year, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 120,000 criminal aliens charged with nearly 10,000 burglaries, 5,000 sexual assaults, 45,000 violent assaults, and 2000 murders. Tragically, there are many cities in America where radical politicians have chosen to provide sanctuary for these criminal illegal aliens. In sanctuary cities local officials order police to release dangerous criminal aliens to prey upon the public instead of handing them over to ICE to be safely removed. Just 29 days ago, a criminal alien freed by the sanctuary city of New York was charged with the brutal rape and murder of a 92 year old woman. The killer had been previously arrested for assault, but under New York sanctuary policies, he was set free. If the city had honored ICE’s detainer requests, his victim would still be alive today.
The state of California passed an outrageous law declaring their whole state to be a sanctuary for criminal illegal immigrants, a very terrible sanctuary with catastrophic results. Here is just one tragic example. In December, 2018 California police detained an illegal alien with five prior arrests, including convictions for robbery and assault, but as required by California sanctuary law, local authorities released him. Days later, the criminal alien went on a gruesome spree of deadly violence. He
Ellian went on a gruesome spree of deadly violence. He viciously shot one man going about his daily work. He approached a woman sitting in her car and shot her in the arm and in the chest. He walked into a convenience store and wildly fired his weapon. He hijacked a truck and smashed into vehicles, critically injuring innocent victims. One of the victims is a terrible, terrible situation, died 51-year-old American named Rocky Jones. Rocky was at a gas station when this vile criminal fired eight bullets at him from close range murdering him and cold blood.
Rocky left behind a devoted family, including his brothers who loved him more than anything else in the world. One of his grieving brothers is here with us tonight. Jody, would you please stand? Jody? Thank you.
Jody, our hearts weep for your lost and we will not rest until you have justice. Senator Thom Tillis has introduced legislation to allow Americans like Jody to sue sanctuary cities and states when a loved one is hurt or killed as a result of these deadly practices.
I asked Congress to pass the Justice for Victims of Sanctuary Cities Act immediately. The United States of America should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal alien.
In the last three years, ICE has arrested over 5,000 wicked human traffickers and I have side nine pieces of legislation to stamp out the menace of human trafficking domestically and all around the globe. My administration has undertaken and unprecedented effort to secure the Southern border of the United States
Before I came into office, if you showed up illegally on our Southern border and were arrested, you were simply released and allowed into our country never to be seen again. My administration has ended catch and release.
If you come illegally, you will now be promptly removed from our country.
Very importantly, we entered into historic cooperation agreements with the governments of Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala. As a result of our unprecedented efforts, illegal crossings are down 75% since May dropping eight straight months in a row.
And as the wall rapidly goes up, drug seizures rise and the border crossings are going down and going down very rapidly. Last year, I traveled to the border in Texas and met Chief Patrol Agent Raul Ortiz. Over the last 24 months, Agent Ortiz and his team have seized more than 200,000 pounds of poisoners narcotics, arrested more than 3,000 human smugglers and rescued more than 2,000 migrants. Days ago, Agent Ortiz was promoted to deputy chief of border patrol and he joins us tonight. Chief Ortiz, please stand.
A grateful nation thanks you and all of the heroes of border patrol and ICE. Thank you very much. Thank you. To build on these historic gains, we are working on legislation to replace our outdated and randomized immigration system with one based on merit, welcoming those who follow the rules, contribute to our economy, support themselves financially, and uphold our values.
With every action, my administration is restoring the rule of law and reasserting the culture of American freedom.
Working with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, thank you, Mitch, and his colleagues in the Senate, we have confirmed a record number of 187 new federal judges to uphold our constitution as written. This includes two brilliant new Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. Thank you. And we have many in the pipeline.
My administration is also defending religious liberty and that includes the constitutional right to pray in public schools.
In America, we don’t punish prayer. We don’t tear down crosses. We don’t band symbols of faith. We don’t muzzle preachers and pastors. In America, we celebrate faith, we cherish religion. We lift our voices in prayer and we raise our sights to the glory of God. Just as we believe in the first amendment, we also believe in another constitutional right that is under siege all across our country. So long as I am president, I will always protect your second amendment right to keep and bear arms.
In reaffirming our heritage as a free nation, we must remember that America has always been a frontier nation. Now we must embrace the next frontier, America’s manifest destiny in the stars. I am asking Congress to fully fund the Artemis program to ensure that the next man and the first woman on the moon will be American astronauts using this as a launching pad to ensure that America is the first nation to plant its flag on Mars.
My administration is also strongly defending our national security and combating radical Islamic terrorism.
Last week, I announced the groundbreaking plan for peace between Israel and the Palestinians. Recognizing that all past attempts have failed, we must be determined and creative in order to stabilize the region and give millions of young people the chance to realize a better future. Three years ago, the barbarians of ISIS held over 20,000 square miles of territory in Iraq and Syria. Today, the ISIS territorial caliphate has been 100% destroyed and the founder and leader of ISIS, the bloodthirsty killer known as al-Baghdadi is dead.
We are joined this evening by Carl and Marcia Mueller. After graduating from college, their beautiful daughter Kayla became a humanitarian aid worker. She once wrote, some people find God in church. Some people find God in nature. Some people find God in love. I find God in suffering. I’ve known for some time what my life’s work is, using my hands as tools to relieve suffering. In 2013 while caring for suffering civilians in Syria, Kayla was kidnapped, tortured, and enslaved by ISIS and kept as a prisoner of al-Baghdadi himself.
After more than 500 horrifying days of captivity, al-Baghdadi murdered young, beautiful Kayla. She was just 26-years-old. On the night that US Special Forces operations ended al-Baghdadi’s miserable life, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff General Mark Milley received a call in the situation room. He was told that the brave men of the elite special forces team that so perfectly carried out the operation had given their mission a name task force 814. It was a reference to a special day, August 14, Kayla’s birthday. Carl and Marsha, America’s warriors never forgot Kayla and neither will we. Thank you. Every day, America’s men and women in uniform demonstrate the infinite depth of love that dwells in the human heart. One of these American heroes was Army Staff Sergeant Christopher Hake. On his second deployment to Iraq in 2008, Sergeant Hake wrote a letter to his one-year-old son, Gage, I will be with you again. He wrote to gage. I will teach you to ride your first bike, build your first sandbox, watch you play sports and see you have kids also. I love you son. Take care of your mother. I am always with you. Daddy.
On Easter Sunday of 2008, Chris was out on patrol in Baghdad when his Bradley fighting vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb. That night, he made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. Sergeant Hake now rests in eternal glory in Arlington and his wife Kelly is in the gallery tonight, joined by their son, who is now a 13-year-old and doing very, very well. To Kelly and Gage, Chris will live in our hearts forever. He’s looking down on you now. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you both very much. The terrorist responsible for killing Sergeant Hake was Qasem Soleimani, who provided the deadly roadside bomb that took Chris’s life. Soleimani was the Iranian regime’s most ruthless butcher, a monster who murder or wounded thousands of American service members in Iraq. As the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani orchestrated the deaths of countless men, women and children. He directed the December assault and went on to assault US forces in Iraq, was actively planning new attacks when we hit him very hard. And that’s why last month at my direction, the US military executed a flawless precision strike that killed Soleimani and terminated his evil reign of terror forever.
Our message to the terrorists is clear. You will never escape American justice. If you attack our citizens, you forfeit your life. In recent months, we have seen prouder radians raise their voices against their oppressive rulers. The Iranian regime must abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons, stop spreading terror, death and destruction, and start working for the good of its own people. Because of our powerful sanctions, the Iranian economy is doing very, very poorly. We can help them make a very good and short time recovery.
It can all go very quickly, but perhaps they are too proud or too foolish to ask for that help. We are here. Let’s see which road they choose. It is totally up to them.
As we defend American lives, we are working to end America’s Wars in the Middle East. In Afghanistan, the determination and valor of our war fighters has allowed us to make tremendous progress and peace talks are now underway. I am not looking to kill hundreds of thousands of people in Afghanistan, many of them totally innocent. It is also not our function to serve other nations as law enforcement agencies. These are war fighters that we have, the best in the world, and they either want to fight to win or not fight at all.
We are working to finally end America’s longest war and bring our troops back home. War places a heavy burden on our nation’s extraordinary military families, especially spouses like Amy Williams from Fort Bragg, North Carolina and her two children, six-year-old Eliana and three-year-old Rowan. Amy works full time and volunteers countless hours helping other military families. For the past seven months, she has done it all while her husband’s Sergeant First Class Townsend Williams is in Afghanistan on his fourth deployment in the Middle East. Amy’s kids haven’t seen their father’s face in many months.
Amy, your family’s sacrifice makes possible for all of our families to live in safety and in peace and we want to thank you. Thank you, Amy. But, Amy, there is one more thing. Tonight, we have a very special surprise. I am thrilled to inform you that your husband is back from deployment. He is here with us tonight and we couldn’t keep him waiting any longer.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Welcome home, Sergeant Williams. Thank you very much. As the world bears witness tonight, America is a land of heroes. There’s a place where greatness is born, where destinies are forged and where legends come to life. This is the home of Thomas Edison and Teddy Roosevelt, of many great generals including Washington, Pershing, Patton, and MacArthur. This is the home of Abraham Lincoln, Frederick Douglass, Amelia Earhart, Harriet Tubman, the Wright brothers, Neil Armstrong, and so many more. This is the country where children learn names like Wyatt Earp, Davy Crockett and Annie Oakley. This is the place where the pilgrims landed at Plymouth and where Texas patriots made their last stand at the Alamo. The beautiful, beautiful Alamo. The American nation was carved out of the vast frontier by the toughest, strongest, fiercest, and most determined men and women ever to walk on the face of the earth. Our ancestors braved the unknown, tamed the wilderness, settled the wild West, lifted millions from poverty, disease and hunger, vanquished tyranny and fascism, ushered the world to new heights of science and medicine, laid down the railroads, dug out the canals, raised up the skyscrapers and ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors built the most exceptional republic ever to exist in all of human history and we are making it greater than ever before. This is our glorious and magnificent inheritance. We are Americans. We are pioneers. We are the pathfinders. We settled the new world. We built the modern world and we change history forever by embracing the eternal truth that everyone is made equal by the hand of almighty God. America is the place where anything can happen. America is the place where anyone can rise. And here on this land, on this soil, on this continent, the most incredible dreams come true. This nation is our canvas and this country is our masterpiece. We look at tomorrow and see unlimited frontiers just waiting to be explored. Our brightest discoveries are not yet known. Our most thrilling stories are not yet told. Our grandest journeys are not yet made. The American age, the American epic, the American adventure has only just begun.
Our spirit is still young. The sun is still rising. God’s grace is still shining. And my fellow Americans, the best is yet to come. Thank you, God bless you and God bless America. Thank you very much.
Over the last five or six years, China’s made $500-billion. 500-billion. Ripped it out of the United States. And not only that, if you take a look, intellectual property theft, add that to it and add a lot of other things to it. So, somebody Excuse me. Somebody had to do it. I am the chosen one. Somebody had to do it. So, I’m taking on China. I’m taking it on China on trade. And you know what? We’re winning because we’re the piggy bank. We’re the one that all these countries, including the European union, wants to rob and takes advantage of. But I’d need a letter from the attorney general
So, the fake news of which many of you are members is trying to convince the public to have a recession. Let’s have a recession. The United States is doing phenomenally well, but one thing I have to do is economically take on China because China has been ripping us off for many years. President Clinton, President Bush, and President Obama and others should have done this long before me. My life would be much easier Although I enjoy doing it, but my life would be much easier if I just said, "Let China continue to rip off the United States." All right? It’d be much easier, but I can’t do that. We are winning against China. They’ve lost two and a half million jobs in a very short period of time. They want to make a deal. It’s got to be a deal that’s good for the United States where they want to make it deal. Probably, we will make a deal. But if I didn’t do that, and I’m not doing Somebody said it’s Trump’s trade war. This isn’t my trade war. This is a trade war that should have taken place a long time ago by a lot of other presidents.
Over the last five or six years, China’s made $500-billion. 500 billion. Ripped it out of the United States. And not only that, if you take a look, intellectual property theft, add that to it and they had a lot of other things do it. So, somebody Excuse me. Somebody had to do it. I am the chosen one. Somebody had to do it. So, I’m taking it on China. I’m taking on China on trade. And you know what? We’re winning. Because we’re the piggy bank. We’re the one that all these countries, including the European union, wants to Rob and takes advantage. European union, $200-billion. China, more than $500-billion.
Sorry. I was put here by people to do a great job and that’s what I’m doing. And nobody’s done a job like I’ve done. Now, would China rather wait for a little more than a year and try and get sleepy Joe Biden to negotiate with instead of President Trump? Maybe, but I don’t think so. You know why? They’re losing too many jobs too fast. They had the worst year in 27 years, but I think it was actually 52 or 54 years. It was the worst year they’ve had in a half a century, and that’s because of me. And I’m not proud of that. But you know what? They want to negotiate, sleepy Joe doesn’t have a clue. Sleepy Joe said, "Oh, China’s wonderful." Well, China is wonderful for China, but I’m wonderful for the USA.
Good morning. My fellow Americans, this morning our nation is overcome with shock, horror, and sorrow. This weekend, more than 80 people were killed or wounded in two evil attacks. On Saturday morning in El Paso, Texas, a wicked man went to a Walmart store where families were shopping with their loved ones. He shot and murdered 20 people and injured 26 others, including precious little children. Then in the early hours of Sunday morning, Dayton, Ohio, another twisted monster opened fire on a crowded downtown street. He murdered nine people, including his own sister, and injured 27 others.
The First Lady and I join all Americans in praying and grieving for the victims, their families, and the survivors. We will stand by their side forever. We will never forget. These barbaric slaughters are an assault upon our communities, an attack upon our nation, and a crime against all of humanity. We are outraged and sickened by this monstrous evil, the cruelty, the hatred, the malice, the bloodshed, and the terror. Our hearts are shattered for every family whose parents, children, husbands, and wives were ripped from their arms and their lives. America weeps for the fallen. We are a loving nation, and our children are entitled to grow up in a just, peaceful, and loving society. Together, we lock arms to shoulder the grief. We ask God in heaven to ease the anguish of those who suffer, and we vow to act with urgent resolve.
I want to thank the many law enforcement personnel who responded to these atrocities with the extraordinary grace and courage of American heroes. I have spoken with Texas governor Greg Abbott and Ohio governor Mike DeWine, as well as Mayor Dee Margo of El Paso, Texas and Mayor Nan Whaley of Dayton, Ohio to express our profound sadness and unfailing support. Today we also send the condolences of our nation to President Obrador of Mexico and all the people of Mexico for the loss of their citizens in the El Paso shooting. Terrible, terrible thing. I have also been in close contact with Attorney General Barr and FBI Director Wray. Federal authorities are on the ground, and I have directed them to provide any and all assistance required, whatever is needed.
The shooter in El Paso posted a manifesto online consumed by racist hate. In one voice, our nation must condemn racism, bigotry, and white supremacy. These sinister ideologies must be defeated. Hate has no place in America. Hatred warps the mind, ravages the heart, and devours the soul. We have asked the FBI to identify all further resources they need to investigate and disrupt hate crimes and domestic terrorism. Whatever they need. We must recognize that the internet has provided a dangerous avenue to radicalize disturbed minds and perform demented acts. We must shine light on the dark recesses of the internet and stop mass murders before they start. The internet likewise is used for human trafficking, illegal drug distribution, and so many other heinous crimes. The perils of the internet and social media cannot be ignored, and they will not be ignored.
In the two decades since Columbine, our nation has watched with rising horror and dread as one mass shooting has followed another, over and over again, decade after decade. We cannot allow ourselves to feel powerless. We can and will stop this evil contagion. In that task, we must honor the sacred memory of those we have lost by acting as one people. Open wounds cannot heal if we are divided. We must seek real bipartisan solutions, we have to do that in a bipartisan manner, that will truly make America safer and better for all.
First, we must do a better job of identifying and acting on early warning signs. I am directing the Department of Justice to work in partnership with local, state, and federal agencies, as well as social media companies, to develop tools that can detect mass shooters before they strike. As an example, the monster in the Parkland High School in Florida had many red flags against him, and yet nobody took decisive action. Nobody did anything. Why not?
Second, we must stop the glorification of violence in our society. This includes the gruesome and grisly video games that are now commonplace. It is too easy today for troubled youth to surround themselves with a culture that celebrates violence. We must stop or substantially reduce this, and it has to begin immediately. Cultural change is hard, but each of us can choose to build a culture that celebrates the inherent worth and dignity of every human life. That’s what we have to do.
Third, we must reform our mental health laws to better identify mentally disturbed individuals who may commit acts of violence, and make sure those people not only get treatment, but when necessary, involuntary confinement. Mental illness and hatred pulls the trigger, not the gun.
Fourth, we must make sure that those judged to pose a grave risk to public safety do not have access to firearms, and that if they do, those firearms can be taken through rapid due process. That is why I have called for red flag laws, also known as extreme risk protection orders. Today, I’m also directing the Department of Justice to propose legislation ensuring that those who commit hate crimes and mass murders face the death penalty, and that this capital punishment be delivered quickly, decisively, and without years of needless delay.
These are just a few of the areas of cooperation that we can pursue. I am open and ready to listen and discuss all ideas that will actually work and make a very big difference. Republicans and Democrats have proven that we can join together in a bipartisan fashion to address this plague. Last year, we enacted the STOP School Violence and Fix NICS Acts into law, providing grants to improve school safety, and strengthening critical background checks for firearm purchases. At my direction, the Department of Justice banned bump stocks. Last year, we prosecuted a record number of firearms offenses.
But there is so much more that we have to do. Now is the time to set destructive partisanship aside, so destructive, and find the courage to answer hatred with unity, devotion, and love. Our future is in our control. America will rise to the challenge. We will always have, and we always will, win. The choice is ours and ours alone. It is not up to mentally ill monsters. It is up to us. If we are able to pass great legislation after all of these years, we will ensure that those who were attacked will not have died in vain.
Well thank you very much, and thank you Gretchen. It’s great to be back in the incredible Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Great place. And this is my 13th visit to Pennsylvania during my administration, which is more than any other president to this point in the term. And I really love Pennsylvania, I went to school in Pennsylvania. Philadelphia. So we love this state, and I love the unions, and I love the workers. And you know, when I built buildings in New York, I built them exclusively with union, people don’t understand that. I was exclusive.
And in the last really great election, our election of 2016, you know, we did great with the union workers, great. But we didn’t do good with the leadership. The leadership said, "Well, we’ve always gone Democrat. Let’s keep going that way." That didn’t work out too well for some of them, I want to tell you. I’ll tell you, and as Gretchen said, this would have never happened without me and us. This would have never happened. So I’m with you. I’m with you. Remember that.
And remember that Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania has the best numbers they’ve ever had in the history of the state, and that’s for a very good reason. And you know what that reason is? Hello, here I am. And I’m truly honored to be here with the amazing energy workers and construction workers. These are talented people, the craft workers who make America run and who make America proud. We’re proud again. We’re proud again.
And no one in the world does it better than you, nobody. Nobody does it better. There’s nobody in the world that does it. And we’re unleashing that power again like we’ve never seen before, I will say. And we are doing well, and we’re fighting against a lot of countries that have taken advantage of us for many, many years, but they’re not doing it so much anymore. And in a little period of time, they won’t be doing it at all anymore. They’ve taken advantage of this country.
Today we celebrate the revolution in American energy that’s helping make our economy the envy of the world. This shell petrochemical plant in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, I did very well here. We did very well. How many points did we win by? Does anybody know? I’ll tell you. Isn’t it, I think 28 points, that’s a lot. That’s against a Democrat  or whatever.
It’s one of the single biggest construction projects in the nation and it made it possible and was possible by clean, affordable, all American natural gas. Powerful, clean, natural gas. And when the wind stops blowing, it doesn’t make any difference does it? Unlike like those big windmills that destroy everybody’s property values, kill all the birds. Someday the environmentalists are going to tell us what’s going on with that. And then all of a sudden it stops, the wind, and the televisions go off. And your wives and husbands say, "Darling, I want to watch Donald Trump on television tonight, but the wind stopped blowing and I can’t watch, there’s no electricity in the house, Darling.".
Now we love natural gas, and we love a lot of other things too. Each of you has taken part in the largest investment in Pennsylvania history. It’s the largest investment in the history of Pennsylvania, in the history of our country, the money that’s being invested in your state right now. With your help, we’re not only unleashing American energy, we’re restoring the glory of American manufacturing, and we are reclaiming our noble heritage as a nation of builders again. A nation of builders.
I was a good builder, I built it, I love building. In fact, I’m going to take a tour of the site. They said, "Sir, we were going to do it before the speech, but we’re waiting for it to stop raining." I said, "Don’t worry about the rain. Do we have umbrellas? Don’t worry about the rain." Umbrellas work very well, especially when they are made in America.
So I don’t care, but we’re gonna take a tour afterwards. I’m going to speak to some of your union leaders to say, I hope you’re going to support Trump. Okay? And if they don’t vote them the hell out of office because they’re not doing their job, it’s true. Vote them out of office.
When completed, this facility will transform abundant natural gas, and we have a lot of it, fracked from Pennsylvania wells, which they never would have allowed you to take if I weren’t president. If my opponent won, this would be a lot of nice new structures outside, I guess you would have stopped long ago. You would have stopped construction before it started too much. But I was talking to Gretchen, they would’ve never gotten the approvals to do what’s needed to fuel these plans. That wouldn’t have been good, so probably they wouldn’t have started, but if they would have started, it would have been stopped. But they put it into plastic through a process known as cracking. That raw material will then be shipped all over the country and all over the world to be fashioned into more products stamped with that very beautiful phrase, "Made in the USA." Right? Made in the USA. Beautiful.
That is a beautiful phrase. Getting this massive job done right, has required more than 1,500 pieces of heavy equipment, one of the largest cranes anywhere in the world. I look forward to seeing it, I love cranes. I love trucks of all types. Even when I was a little boy at four years old, my mother would say, "You love the trucks." I do. I always loved trucks, I still do, nothing changes. Sometimes, you know, you might become president, but nothing changes, I still love trucks. Especially when I look at the largest crane in the world, that’s very cool. Do you think I’ll get to operate it? I don’t know. We’ll put the media on it and I’ll give then a little ride. Right?
And you have thousands of tons of concrete, aluminum, and steel and nearly 6,000 of the strongest, toughest, and most talented workers anywhere on earth. It’s true. I know. It was the Trump administration that made it possible, no one else. Without us, you would never have been able to do this. I want to thank all of our great union members, the boiler makers, carpenters, cement finishers, electricians, iron workers, laborers, millwrights, operators, plumbers, painters, steam fitters, I know them well.
And a group that I’ve used more than anybody that’s ever run for office times a thousand. Because in New York City they would drive those cement trucks up to my building, and those trucks were always on time, and sometimes they were lined up for six blocks when I was doing different things. Even when I was doing the Wollman Rink the city couldn’t build, it took them nine years, they had no idea what they were doing. And I had that whole, big, about 70,000 feet. It’s like a massive office floor, bigger than an office. Look, we did it all in one day and the trucks were lined up from Central Park all the way back into Harlem. And they did it all in one day.
That pour, it was called a contiguous pour, the city used to build little pieces, a little piece here, a little piece there, little piece here, little piece there. A few years later, a little piece here. Then they had pipes underneath, and the pipes were made out of copper. And during the evening things would happen, like the copper would be stolen because it was very valuable. So they’d have a little piece with copper and then the rest of the pipe they’d lay and they’d get ready to pour, and they’d leave and everybody would steal the copper. So they’d  this took place for  I guess from seven to nine years, nobody actually knows, nobody wants to talk about it. But those trucks were operated incredibly well and I never missed a delivery and it’s called the teamsters.
I also wanna thank Bechtel, a real incredible company. We talk about the great builders of the world, President Jack Future. Where is he? Where is he? Jack? Where is Jack? Jack? What a great job you’ve done, Jack. Some big ones. Think of it this way, Jack, if we don’t win, you won’t be doing anything in this country. And you know the world follows us, you see that. The world follows us. And it won’t be so good. But you and I are friends and you’re going to have a lot of work to do, I think Jack, a lot of work. Thank you, Jack. Great job. Jack has done an incredible job. That’s an incredible company. Incredible. They’re incredible builders.
And the Secretary Treasurer of North America is building trades unions, Brent Booker, where’s Brent? Brent, thank you, great job. Young guy. You’re so young, Brent. How the hell did you get that job? Man.
We’re honored to be joined by two leaders who truly have the backs of American workers. They’ve become friends of mine, they do such an incredible job. They break up the roadblocks. We have a lot of roadblocks in this country where you have  a little clause can stop a project, a little clause can stop it for years. And we break up those little clauses, we break them up fast. Energy Secretary Rick Perry. Where’s Rick? Rick. Thank you, Rick. Another great guy. I had to compete with him. You know, he wanted to be president. He was tough, he was nasty. Man. He was nasty. But then he said, "I want to do something great", and you have been incredible. He ran Texas for like 14 years. And he did it well and now he’s running a little thing called energy and nobody’s ever done it better. Thank you, Rick, very much. Great job.
And a man who has been incredible in every way. You know, EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, you’ve heard a lot of horror stories where nothing can get done, nothing gets passed. It takes years, and years, and years to get a simple permit. It can take 20, 21 years to get a road before they reject it. How about this? They go 20 years, 21 years in certain cases for a highway or road, not even a highway. At the end of the 21st year they vote to reject it. How would you like to be, you’re a young person, you’re starting out, and you’re all excited about this project, and it starts off as being a simple straight road. And then it ends up being a total catastrophe. Because of nesting and lots of other things that we can take care of. And it’s 20 years later, and then they reject it. You’ve devoted half of your working life to a rejection. Happened to many people. And we have a man that knows how to break it up, but he’s also a great lover of the environment, EPA Administrator, Andrew Wheeler. He’s done an incredible job. Andrew, great job, Andre. Really great job.
And I also want to recognize some of my great friends that have helped me so much. Congressman John Joyce. John? John? Where is John? John. John, usually you’re in the front row, I can’t believe this. I guess you got shut out by the unions. Thank you John. Fantastic job, John Joyce. Been a great friend, a great friend of all of us.
Speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, Michael Turzai. Michael Turzai. Thank you, Michael, great job. Thank you. Good to see you, Michael. Michael Turzai. Great name in this state, I’ll tell you, for a long time. How long has it been, Michael, you’ve been there a long time. How long? Okay, good luck. Not that long. Thank you Mike.
And one of my good friends from Beaver County, David Urban. David. David, where’s David? David, thank you, David. Great football player, great athlete. And he was a Trump supporter, he liked Trump. And when he liked Trump, nobody was going to get in his way. Right, David? Thank you. Thank you. How are we doing in this state, David? We looking good? Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. I think we’re looking very good. I think we’re looking good all over in Ohio, in North Carolina and South Carolina, Florida. We just got numbers in Florida. We’re looking fantastically good.
Now, you know, sometimes  And they do, they do, they say "Donald Trump". Can you imagine if I got a fair press? I mean, we’re leading without it, can you imagine if these people treated me fairly? The election would be over. Have they ever called off an election before? Just said, "Look, just  let’s go, go on, four more years."
Yeah. And then you want to really drive them crazy, go to hashtag third term, hashtag fourth term. You’ll drive them totally crazy. I mean, you have one guy on television, I’m telling you he’s not leaving. He’s going to win. And then he’s not leaving. So in 2024 he won’t leave, I’m telling you, this is a serious person. These people have gone stone cold crazy.
And we’re grateful, especially to chairman of Royal Dutch Shell. That’s big stuff, folks. You know, I’m a business guy, When I hear Royal Dutch Shell, until I became president, that was like a big deal. But now I don’t feel it the same. Once you’re president, nothing seems big. Right? Chad Holiday. Where’s Chad? Chad understands. That’s a big deal, Chad. And thank you for coming. That’s a big deal. You don’t get any bigger. It’s an incredible company.
Shell’s US president, you just met her and you know her, everybody knows her. And she’s got a lot of other things in store, and she’s thanked me for what we’ve done here, but I said, "Forget this. We’ve got a lot of jobs. Let’s do a couple of more fast. Do them fast, we’ll get your fast approvals," and you may get rejected. You know, if it’s not going to be environmentally good, environmentally sound, if something’s going to be wrong, but we’re not going to take 20 years to reject you like they did with the pipelines. Doesn’t matter, I approved them, but that’s okay. So we have pipe  Oh. We’ve got plenty of pipeline folks here, don’t we? Ah, I’d say.
Hey. You know, that’s a bigger hand than we got from the Teamsters, you believe that? Now, but you know they did that with the pipelines, right? Keystone XL, they did it with the pipelines. Dakota Access Pipeline, we’re building pipelines, and if we get the pipelines approved then you better work. The EPA is working right now to get them approved and Texas said, "If we can do, we can increase our  we can increase," we’re now the largest in the world in energy by far.
But if we get those approved, Andrew, I hope Andrew’s listening, EPA, Andrew, you know what I’m saying, right? If we get them approved in Texas fast, they said it will take 18 years. I said, "Could you do it in about a month?" If we get the  Oh look at those pipeline guys, they’re so happy. That’s a lot of jobs. But Andrew, if we get them approved fast, we can increase our entire output. Texas is so big and is bigger, it turned out to be much bigger. I also got you ANWR in Alaska, which may be bigger than everything. And they couldn’t get it. Ronald Reagan couldn’t get it, no president could get it, and I got it approved and we’re all set. And so Andrew in Texas, if you can get those pipelines going, you will be so happy. We’ll have dinner with your family. I’ll tell them how great you were. Okay, EPA. Thank you, Andrew.
So I want to  I want to thank though Gretchen, she’s been fantastic. I also want to thank Vice President of Pennsylvania Chemicals, Hillary Mercer. I want to thank you very much for investing in the people of Pennsylvania. Hillary? Where’s Hillary? Thank you, Hillary. You’re investing in the people of Pennsylvania, so that’s a guarantee, as far as I’m concerned.
America greatness was forged and fueled and won by the extraordinary workers of this region. This region is an incredible region. Pennsylvania steel raised the skyscrapers that built our cities, and by the way, steel, steel was dead. Your business was dead. Okay? I don’t want to be overly crude. Your business was dead. And I put a little thing called a 25% tariff on all of the dump steel all over the country, and now your business is thriving. Probably there’s few businesses that have gone proportionately up like steel and aluminum. We did it with aluminum too, but they are doing well, 25% and 10% on aluminum.
doing well, 25% and 10% on aluminum, and they still dump, but now the United States takes in billions of dollars, and the dumping is much less, and the steel companies are thriving again. We have to have a steel industry. We need steel for defense. What are we going to do? We have a little bit of a problem. We have a little bit of a conflict. We’ll say, "Listen, China, could you do us a favor? We need to help. All our steel mills are closed, Oh, dammit. Could you send us some steel, please? We don’t make seal anymore.".
Well, we make it now, and I’ll tell you what, those steel mills, US Steel and all of them, all of them, they’re expanding all over the place. New mills, new expansions. We didn’t have a new mill built in 30 years, and now we have many of them going up. Many car plants, they’re coming in from Japan. I told Prime Minister Abe, great guy. I said, listen, we have a massive deficit with Japan. They send thousands and thousands, millions of cars, we send them wheat. Wheat. That’s not a good deal.
And they don’t even want our wheat. They do it because they want us to at least feel that we’re okay. You know, they do it to make us feel good, but the deficit is massive, which changing rapidly. But what they’re doing is they’re buying a lot of our stuff, including our military equipment. They are building car plants now in the United States, in Michigan, in Pennsylvania, many, many of the Japanese car companies are coming over and building car plants in the United States. It doesn’t fully do the trip, but it helps. And those deficits will start coming down very substantially, but we’re losing 78 billion. For many years, we’re losing billions and billions with these countries, and frankly, the countries that we do the worst with are the allies, our allies. Does that make sense to you? Our allies take advantage of us far greater than our enemies, and someday I’m going to explain that to a lot of people.
Pennsylvania miners. Do we love our miners? They lit up our towns and powered our industries, and Pennsylvania factory workers made the American brand into the universal symbol of excellence all around the world, all over. But in recent decades, the loyalty of Pennsylvania workers was repaid only with betrayal. They betrayed you. They let your companies move to Mexico, to Canada, to China, to many other places. We ended up with no income and massive unemployment. Well, right now our employment has reached the lowest level that it’s seen since the 1960s and we’ll soon be breaking that record, I predict.
And you’ve heard me say it, but now it’s even better. Numbers just came out. African American unemployment, lowest in history, Asian American, Hispanic American, lowest in the history of our country. Women lowest in 70 years. Sorry women, I let you down again. Think of it, lowest in 70 years, and I have to apologize to women, but soon we’re going to have that. That will be a record very soon. We’re very close to saying lowest in history for women unemployment. Today we have more workers working in the United States, almost 160 million, than at any time in the history of our country. Think of that. That’s a hell of a stat. The political class in Washington gutted your factories with horrendous trade deals, horrible. NAFTA, one of the worst deals ever. By the way, World Trade Organization, it made China, China made themselves, they did a good job, but they ripped off our country for years, and with our money and World Trade Organization backing, and then they took advantage of the rules of the World Trade Organization, and I’m being nice when I say took advantage. Much more than took advantage.
They went up like a rocket ship. They were flat lined for a hundred years, and then one day World Trade Organization, a terrible move, and we were losing all our cases until I came along. We were losing all our cases in the World Trade Organization. Almost every case were lost, lost, lost. They thought we were stupid. They were the ones ruling. And then I came along. Now we’re winning a lot of cases, because they know that they’re not on very solid ground. We will leave if we have to, and all of a sudden we’re winning a lot of cases. We’re winning most of our cases, and it’s only because of attitude, because we know that they have been screwing us for years, and it’s not going to happen any longer. They get it, they get it. So they’re giving us victories. They’re giving us victories.
I’d like to use a different word, but there’s no word that’s quite as  Right? There’s no word that’s quite as descriptive. I’d like to, but that’s exactly what they were doing. They were taking advantage of us for years and years, and now they understand that if it’s not going to be fair, it’s not going to be at all. We don’t need it, we don’t need it. So a lot of good things, and I think we will, I think they will treat us fairly. I mean the concept should work, but people have taken advantage. Like for instance, they view certain countries like China, India, many countries for a long time, they viewed them as they’re growing, right? They’re growing nations. We’re a mature nation. They’re growing. These are growing nations. Well, they’ve grown, and they had tremendous advantages, but we’re not letting that happen anymore, okay? We’re not letting that happen anymore.
Everybody’s growing but us. They’re all growing nations. We have to work with them, but nobody ever wants to work with the United States. It’s a disgrace. But it’s changing, and it’s changing fast, and I think it’s the primary reason probably that I ran for president. I’d see these factories all over the country, and I’d see them empty, and I’d see the jobs going to other countries, and I just never understood why the politicians didn’t do anything about it. But now we’re doing it. And by the way, the USMCA, that’s Mexico and Canada, that deal is a fantastic deal, and it’s a great deal for your unions, too. We have the farmers, the unions, the manufacturers. It’s good for everybody. We have to get the Democrats to put it up for a vote, and most Democrats are going to vote for it, too. They’re under a lot of pressure to vote for it, but that replaces one of the worst trade deals ever made, which is NAFTA.
But I watched them crush your industries with taxes and regulations, and they targeted American energy for total destruction. You weren’t going to be able to take anything out. That’s our gold. That’s gold underneath their feet, and they weren’t going to allow it to happen. The Paris Accord, the Paris Accord was good for other countries, wasn’t good for us. All the while they expected you to stay on the sidelines, silence your voices, and surrender the future of our nation, and you didn’t do it, but you didn’t have the right people representing you, so it didn’t matter. But when you finally had the right person, the person that really cared  This thing is costing me a fortune, being president. Somebody said, "Oh, he might’ve rented a room to a man from Saudi Arabia for $500." What about the 5 billion that I’ll lose?
It’s probably gonna cost me, including upside downside lawyers, because every day they sue me for something. These are the most litigious people. It’s probably costing me from three to 5 billion for the privilege of being, and I couldn’t care less. I don’t care. You know, if you’re wealthy, it doesn’t matter. I just want to do a great job. That’s why I don’t care. I want to do the right job. When this great building company comes here, wants to build a plant, I want to make it easy for them, not hard for them. I’m not jealous of them. I couldn’t care less. I’m not jealous of them.
I got sued on a thing called emoluments. Emoluments, you ever hear the word? Nobody ever heard of it before. They went back. Now nobody looks at Obama getting $60 million for a book. That’s okay, even though nobody in history ever got that much money for a book. Obama got 60. Think of it, $60 million for a book. But with me, it’s everything. Emoluments. Nobody knows what it is. Here’s the good news. Last month I just won two cases on emoluments, and the judge was scolding of the other side. And what it is, is presidential harassment, because this thing is costing me a fortune and I love it. Okay? I love it because I’m making the lives of other people much, much better.
Each of you here today is living proof that America never surrenders. We don’t surrender. And we were in bad shape. This area was in really bad shape, and now you look outside and you say, that’s like the eighth wonder of the world. Under my administration, we’re fighting back, and we’re winning because we are truly and finally putting America first. After years of building up foreign countries, we are finally building up our country. Think of it, we protect the border of South Korea, but we don’t protect our own border. But now we are and the wall is being built. We won that case two weeks ago. We won that case. The wall is being  We’re going to have a lot of it. We’re going to have anywhere from 400 to 500 miles built by the end of next year. We’re building a lot of wall, and we need it. We need it. We want people to come into our country. They have to come in legally, and we want them to come in through merit. The last administration tried to shut down Pennsylvania coal and Pennsylvania fracking. If they got in, your fracking is gone. Your coal is gone. You guys, I don’t know what the hell you going to do. You don’t want to make widgets, right? Do you want to learn how to make a computer, a little tiny piece of stuff you put it with those big, beautiful hands of yours?
Take these big hands, he’s going to take this little tiny part. He’s going to go home. "Alice, this is a tough job." No, you want to make steel, and you want to dig coal, and that’s what you want to do. I was in West Virginia when Hillary made that terrible statement that she wants to close up all of the coal. She forgot in three weeks she was going to West Virginia. Remember, she wanted to close up all coal. She was in an area where they didn’t do the coal, and she said, "I look forward to closing up all coal. It’s going to be closed. Steel is going to be in big trouble." She forgot, three weeks she was going to West Virginia. That didn’t work out. I want that one by 42 points, 42 points, West Virginia.
I actually think this time we have a good chance of winning Virginia, which is a tough one to win, because you know you have some people there that maybe don’t agree with us, but I think we have a really good chance of Virginia, too, which is something that hasn’t been won by a Republican in a long time. But it’s common sense, and a lot of this is, you know, they say politics, politics, great politics is common sense. But on my first day in office, I ended the war on American energy, and that’s common sense, I think. That’s common sense. We’re lucky. You go to places like China, they don’t have oil and gas. They don’t have it under there. They have to go buy it, and then they devalue their currency and manipulate their currency, and that’s cost them a fortune to go out and buy it.
They hurt themselves in the long run, but they’re devaluing all over the place as others are. But we have this unbelievable, the greatest in the world. We have the greatest resources, which really came about over the last few years. Nobody knew this. Fracking made it possible. Other new technologies made it possible, and now we’re the number one. Think of it, as I said, the number one energy producer in the world. I’m so proud of that, because we wouldn’t have been number five. They were going to close it up. They were going to close it up, and it’s common sense. They wanted to take away our wealth. That’s what the Paris Accord would have done, would have taken away our wealth. It wasn’t for us. It was good for others. It wasn’t for us. We had to pay money to other countries that are very substantial countries. They wanted to take away your wealth. They didn’t want you to drill. They didn’t want you to frack. They didn’t want you to do steel. They wanted to take away your wealth. . Now the press will try and spin that differently, but I’m right.
The fake news. That’s a lot of people back there for, for 11 o’clock speeches. That’s a lot of people. It’s like the Academy Awards during the day. It used to be. The Academy Awards is on hard times now. You know that. Nobody wants to watch it. You know why? Because they started taking us on. Everyone got tired of it. It’s amazing. That used to be second after the Super Bowl, and then all of a sudden, now it’s just another show, because people got tired of people getting up and making fools of themselves and disrespecting the people in this room and the people that won the election in 2016.
And the people that won the Senate without me on the ticket in 2018, they never say that. We won the Senate. That’s why we’ll have appointed within two months 179 federal judges and two Supreme Court judges. Think of that. 179. But they don’t say we want the Senate. They say we lost the House, and you know, there are a lot of people running for the house. It’s hard for me to campaign, but almost everybody I campaigned for won. We had tremendous records in ’18, and I wasn’t running. There’s a big difference. In 2020 we’re running, so you better get out there and make sure we win.
We have a record that nobody’s ever had. Remember when I was running, I was saying, "We’re going to do this. We’re going to create jobs." Everyone, big yawn. You know, we like him. Let’s give him a shot. What do we have to lose, right? I said that with African Americans, they had the worst crime rates, the worst education, the worst everything. They had like 10 things. I’m reading it off a list. I looked, I said, "What the hell do you have to lose?" But I really sort of said the same thing to everybody, because our country wasn’t doing well with Biden and Obama, wasn’t doing well, and they were pouring money in, pouring, pouring money in, and it wasn’t doing well. Even now, you see the interest rates, I’m paying a normalized interest rate. We should be paying less, frankly.
This guy’s made a big mistake. He’s made a big mistake. The head of the Fed. That was another beauty that I chose, but even with that, we’re paying a normalized interest rate. The nice thing is you get some interest from the bank. With President Obama, he was paying nothing. It’s easy to make money when you’re paying nothing. You’re paying zero. Easy. But even with that, our economy’s roaring, and his wasn’t. It was the weakest economy since the Great Depression, the weakest up. So we have it going. Our country now has the hottest economy anywhere in the world.
Every time a prime minister, president, king, queen, dictator, whatever they may be. Some are sort of mutual. Some you have presidents and prime ministers who are actually dictators, but they come in and they see me at the Oval Office. They always say, almost everybody, congratulations on your incredible economy. What you’ve done is incredible. The tax cuts, the regulation cuts, all of the things we’ve done, and they’re all saying that they want to try and copy us. It’s not easy to copy us. A part of the reason it’s not easy is because of the people like this all over the country, the people in this room. You are incredible people. That was an incredible. Thank you.
Incredible people. Incredible people. And here in the Appalachian region where the Marcellus and Utica shale formations generate one third of American natural gas, think of that. You’ve been sitting on this for a long time, and yet look at the numbers. Look at the way you lived, because you never had anybody that wanted to take advantage of it, but now we’re taking advantage of it. You’re sitting on gold, and we’re taking advantage of it, and your future has never looked brighter or better. It’s so great that you stayed, because you suffered. This whole region, Appalachia. It just suffered, this whole region, with great people, the greatest people, and you suffered.
When this plant opens, 600 American workers will get the full time jobs with quality healthcare, pensions, and great pay to support a family, and you have, I said before, almost 2000 construction workers, and you’re going to another plant, because we’re going to talk to Bechtel after this, and we’re talking to Shell. When you got the boss from Shell, you people don’t realize, that’s a big deal. I don’t know where the hell he comes from. Where are you based? It’s not in this country. Hey, how about moving Shell to the United States?
We’re ready if you are. Just let me know. But they have their big USA division, but that that’s a great company. It’s a big deal, and that you’re here is a big deal. That’s a big deal to me, and it’s a big deal to everybody in this room. You have the top man, top man at Shell. But this is just the beginning. My administration is clearly the way for other massive multibillion dollar investments. We just did one in Louisiana. It’s a $10 billion plant. There’s more pipes in that plant that I’ve ever seen in my life. There’s more plant. You know that. LNG, it’s an LNG plant, $10 billion, and it’s totally sold out. They sell it like you rent office space. Can you believe it? It’s all sold out.
All over the world, people have used it, and you haven’t had a plant like that built in this country really ever, because there’s never been anything that big, but you didn’t build plants like that, because environmentally they weren’t letting you. And yet environmentally it’s so good what they’ve done and what they can build today. Investments that could bring more than 100,000 new jobs to this region are now being looked at very seriously, and I think the hundred thousand dollars, I really do, I feel the 100,000 jobs, Andrew, is going to be a very low number. I think you’re going to have many more. This is an incredible region. You’re sitting on top of something special. It’s all fueled by the greatest treasure on the planet, American energy, and we don’t want people taking that away from us. Two more companies have recently proposed a $10 billion investment in the great state of Ohio, incredible state.
We have tens of billions of dollars’ worth of investments, and this is really good stuff that we’re now negotiating, but these two are in Ohio. The energy revolution is also creating new jobs in West Virginia, Mexico, Colorado, Texas, Kansas, Louisiana, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, all across our beautiful land. You have no idea what’s going on, including, as I said before, car companies. We didn’t make cars. Look, we lost 32% of our car companies to Mexico, before I got there, by the way. Now it’s very, very hard to do that anymore. Nobody’s going to be looking that way, I don’t think. And I want to thank Mexico, because the president now has been great, and he’s got 27,000 soldiers on our Southern border and on his border with Guatemala, keeping our borders safe. Our numbers are plummeting, the people coming in, all because the Democrats won’t approve fixing the loopholes of asylum. So I want to thank Mexico. It’s incredible. We have close-
I want to thank Mexico. It’s incredible. We have close to 27,000. Think of that. We never had three. I think we had about two and a half soldiers. One was sitting down all the time. We had nobody.
And don’t forget, the southern border is 2,000 miles from the Gulf to the Pacific. We have 27,000, and they’re doing a great job. They’re helping themselves, too, because they’re disrupting and really hurting the cartels. So much of that stuff is run illegally by the cartels, human trafficking, drugs, people. It’s terrible.
Mexico, I’ll tell you, they are so far I hope they’re going to keep it up. I hope they’re going to keep it up. But they’ve been great, and 27,000 people. They wouldn’t have done that for any other president. That I can tell you. That I can tell you.
With us today are a few of the hardworking Pennsylvania patriots who are making this comeback possible.
Jason Eckhart is the third generation of his family to work on these grounds, and he’s doing better than any of them. By the way, three years ago, you wouldn’t have said that. Three years ago, his father would say, "Hey, I had it made." His grandparents would say, "We had it made." Now he can look at them and say, "Dad, we have it made.".
His father and grandfather worked for the zinc smelting company previously housed at this site. When that plant closed in 2014, 500 jobs disappeared, like magic. Remember President Obama, "You need magic to bring back manufacturing jobs. You need a magic wand." Do you remember? "Not going to happen." Well, so far, we’ve brought back 600,000 manufacturing jobs.
Jason never imagined he would get the chance to carry on his family’s legacy, but now he has. He is carrying it on, and he’s carrying it on proudly. He’s a great American. Jason? Where are you, Jason? Jason? Jason? Come on up, Jason. Come on, let’s get Jason up. Come on up. Jason. I’d like Jason to tell us what this great facility means to him and to his family. Thank you.
Thank you, Jason.
Thank you, Jason. Great. Did you enjoy doing that, Jason? I think so. You had a big group of people back here that likes you a lot. They’re giving him a hard time back there, his friends. Thanks, Jason.
Heather Michaux grew up here in Beaver County, and has been working for Shell in other states for several years. Now she can raise her family right near her parents and loved ones, and actually be home, where she wants to be and where she belongs. Heather, please come up and tell us about your journey.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. She’ll be running for office soon. Fantastic job.
Samantha Polizotto was a single mom working full-time when she learned about process technology training programs at the local community college, funded by Shell. She became the first woman to graduate from that program, and she made the Dean’s List. That’s pretty good. Now she’s leading the way as one of the very first production operators hired here at Shell.
Samantha, please come up and say a few words. Please.
Thank you, Samantha. That was a great job. Thank you.
To help create more opportunities for workers like Jason, Heather, and Samantha, my administration started the Pledge to America’s Workers. Our partners are providing over 12 million training and enhanced career opportunities to American workers. My daughter Ivanka is working so hard on it. She’s done a great job. Twelve million people, so far, have been positively affected.
Today, I’m pleased to announce that Shell is signing the Pledge to America’s Workers to provide enhanced career opportunities. By the way, Shell, thank you. They’re providing career opportunities to 3,300 workers over five years, right here in Western Pennsylvania. That’s great. Thank you, fellas. Thank you very much. And thank you, Hilary, for the tremendous commitment that you’ve made. We really appreciate it. Fantastic job.
Under this administration, we live by two very simple words, Buy American. That’s what we want. I’m going to add something. Hire American. It’s about hiring American, buying American. It’s about America First. It’s about Make America Great Again. It’s about Keep America Great.
Despite all of this exceptional progress, however, some politicians in this country still want to keep America’s vast energy treasures buried deep underground, let other nations take advantage of our country. Not happening anymore. They see factories like this one not as a cause for celebration, but for condemnation. Democrats in Congress are pushing hard for the Green New Deal. How about that one? Green New Deal.
Boo.
Where it puts everybody in this room out of work, hate to tell you, and a lot more people. Everybody out of work. But I don’t want to speak badly about it. You know, you’ve heard me say this. I want to encourage them. That should be their platform.
I don’t want to do it too early. I did it very early with Pocahontas. I should have probably waited. She’s staging a comeback on Sleepy Joe. I don’t know who’s going to win, but we’ll have to hit Pocahontas very hard again if she does win. But she’s staging a little bit of a comeback. What a group, Pocahontas and Sleepy Joe. I don’t think they give a damn about Western Pennsylvania, do you?
No.
I don’t think so. And other radical plans to wipe out our coal. That’s what they want. They want to wipe out our oil. They want to wipe out our natural gas industries, while allowing other countries to steal our jobs. Virtually every leading Democrat has vowed to eliminate fossil fuels, obliterating millions of American jobs, devastating communities, and bankrupting factories, families, and senior citizens all across this region.
By the way, this is the only fuel that has the power for plants. When you have to steam up and you have to fuel up on these giant plants, these giant generators, these giant electrical factories, you need what you’re doing. You need this. It’s got the power. The other doesn’t have the power, certainly not yet, probably never will.
We’re not taking chances. We have the cleanest air and water we’ve ever had in our country right now, the cleanest we’ve ever had, and we’re going to keep it that way.
We’re never going to allow other countries and outside sources to take away our great wealth, because that’s what they want to do. They want to take away our wealth, take away our jobs. We’re not going to let it happen.
To see the destructive results of the far-left’s energy nightmare, just compare the enormous success here in Pennsylvania with the tremendous folly happening right across a line, a little line, in New York. Both states have vast energy reserves, but New York prohibits development while Pennsylvania welcomes it.
From 2010 to 2017, natural gas production plummeted by nearly 70% in New York, but it soared almost 1000% percent in Pennsylvania. And New York won’t allow us to build a pipeline across, because New York is sort of a long state, and we can’t have pipelines going across, helping a region that’s not a wealthy region at all. They have a lot of economic problems. People are leaving left and right.
We want to get it over to the waters. We want to get it over to the oceans. We want to get it up to New England, where they have the highest energy costs anywhere in the United States. We can’t get energy because New York doesn’t allow the pipelines to go through. That’s going to be very costly for New York, ultimately.
As a result, families in Pennsylvania shale country got more jobs, billions of dollars in royalty payments, and wages that are significantly higher compared to their neighbors just across the state line. Meanwhile, families in New York I love New York. that’s where I’m from. Probably most of you don’t know that. That’s where I’m from. They’re burdened with more power outages and electricity rates, you never saw anything like this, that are much, much higher than neighboring states and than your state.
New York energy rates are through the roof. New England, through the roof. A lot of it has to do with the fact that we can’t get pipelines through New York. New York won’t let us. They won’t let us.
All New York likes to do is sue me. They like to sue me. They’re always suing. I said, "Which lawyer is handling that case?" No, they sue me for everything so they can try to stop us by any means possible.
The radical Left wants to do to America what they’ve done to New York, raise prices, kill jobs, and leave our nation less independent and far less secure. My vision is the exact opposite. We want to work with New York, and we want to help New York. They need jobs in New York so badly. You know, they talk about the environment. So you have the state line, and over here you have machinery fracking. And over here you have nothing, except poverty. Over here you have people driving new cars and nice cars, and over here you have cars that are 40 years old. Now, what does that have to do with the environment? It’s the same. It’s an artificial line.
I wonder what happens when they get down there. What happens? I just wonder, is New York losing its wealth? You know what I’m talking about, right? What happens when those lines go down and they can go in any direction now? The equipment is so incredible.
Hopefully, we can help New York. I want to help New York so much. We will never allow ourselves to be at the mercy of foreign energy suppliers. That’s what’s fighting us. They don’t want us to have great energy. They’ve made a fortune selling us energy.
You probably saw the Straits the other day. Very few American boats are there. They capture. Iran, I broke up that deal. That was a good thing to do. It’s a whole different country right now.
They’re capturing boats from other countries. They’re not taking our boats. One of the things that was brought up by the media, actually, and wisely and correctly brought out, we have very few boats going there anymore because we have our own oil and gas. We don’t need it from the Middle East anymore. That’s why we’re pursuing a future not only of energy independence but not just words. You know, you’ve been hearing energy independence for years and years, and you’d hear it. We have real independence. But what we want now is not independence; we want American energy dominance. Dominance.
Instead of relying on foreign countries, we are now relying on American producers, and we are relying on American workers to build our own future right here on American soil. It’s time.
Together, we’re defending the oil and gas workers who light up our cities and uplift our communities. We’re fighting for the technicians and construction workers here in Beaver County who are building a powerful engine of American commerce. There’s no place like what you’re seeing right outside these doors. There is no place like it.
We’re here once again to stand up for the engineers and the factory workers who will shape the work of your hands into American-made products sold all over the world. That’s what’s going to happen. That’s what you’re producing.
And everyday patriots who make this all possible, you are the backbone of America, the absolute backbone, and you haven’t been given the honor of having that said by other people. But you are the backbone of this country. So true.
You are the ones who work hard, pay your taxes, build your neighborhoods, obey our laws, safeguard our values, raise up your children, make this land the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the Earth. You are the ones who do it. We work with a lot of people, but you are there and you are doing it. You’ve always been loyal to America, and now you finally have a president of the United States who is loyal to you.
Our vision is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, pro-energy, and 100% pro-American. We’re taking care of our military, and we’re taking care of our vets. Veterans Choice, you’ve been hearing it about for 45 years. I got it approved. Veterans Choice. We’re taking care of our veterans. We’re taking care of our military like never, ever before. Because Americans can do anything, go anywhere, and outperform anyone. Nobody can beat us. Nothing can stop us, because winning is what Americans do. Winning is what we know best. We will keep winning, wining, winning.
I used to tell you the story about winning. I used to say that your great leaders would come to Washington and they would say, "President, we’re winning too much. We can’t take it anymore. The people of Pennsylvania cannot stand winning. We haven’t won for years and years, and now we’re winning too much. Mr. President, please, for the good of the people of Pennsylvania, stop winning. Stop creating all these jobs. Stop creating all this product. Please, sir. Please, stop winning.".
I said to them, and I will say to them, "We’re never going to stop winning because nobody has ever won like what’s happened over the last couple of years. Nobody has ever won like you’re winning." I’ve more than fulfilled my promises. Even they said, "He promised things, and he actually produced more than he promised." That’s true. But we’re going to produce more and more.
I just want to thank everybody. With your help, factory floors across this land are once more crackling with life. Our steel mills are fired up and blazing bright. The assembly lines are roaring. Industry is booming. And the hearts of our workers, the American spirit, is soaring higher, stronger, freer, and greater than ever before.
I want to thank you all for giving this nation your very best, and your very best cannot be beaten. I want to thank you for filling America with pride. We are proud of you. We think you are just incredible, incredible people. It’s an honor for me to be with you in Pennsylvania.
Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless you.
(singing)
May God bless the memory of those who perished in Toledo, and may God protect them. May God protect all of those from Texas to Ohio. May God bless the victims and their families. May God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
Well, thank you very much. This is certainly being home for me. I spent a lot of time right here. I was in Queens, so I’d come here and this was like the luxury location for me and I love it. I love the people here. Even coming in from the airport, I sat with Nikki Haley, who’s here someplace. Where’s our Nikki? Ambassador Nikki Haley, who is so incredible. And she’s seen crowds in her life. And she said, "Boy. Those are really big crowds." Crowds of people all lining the streets all the way over to here and it’s really a special place. And so when I heard about this, I said, "I want to do that one." But I really wanted to do it, not because of location, but because, as you know, I am the big, big believer and admirer of the people in law enforcement. Okay? From day one. From day one.
We love our police. We love our sheriffs and we love our ICE officers and they have been working hard. Thank you. They have been working hard
Together we’re going to restore safety to our streets and peace to our communities. And we’re going to destroy the vile criminal cartel, MS-13, and many other gangs But MS-13 is particularly violent. They don’t like shooting people because it’s too quick. It’s too fast. I was reading One of these animals was caught and explaining they liked to knife them and cut them and let them die slowly because that way it’s more painful and they enjoy watching that much more. These are animals.
We’re joined today by police and sheriffs from Suffolk, Nassau, Duchess and Ulster counties. State police from New York and New Jersey. Many of you I know. Great friends. Immigration and customs enforcement officers, and law enforcement personnel from a number of federal agencies, so we’re loaded up with great people. That’s what I call it. And I want to just tell you all together right now, and the reason I came This is the most important sentence to me. On behalf of the American people, I want to say, "Thank you. Thank you very much."
Thank you. And I don’t think you know how much the public respects and admires you. You’re saving American lives every day and we have your backs. Believe me. We have your backs 100%. Not like the old days. Not like the old days.
You know, when you want to take over used military equipment, they were saying you couldn’t do it, you know what I said. That was my first day. You can do it. In fact, that stuff is disappearing so fast we have none left. You guys know how to you You really knew how to get that, but that’s my honor. And I’ll tell you what, it’s being put to good use.
I especially want to thank ICE director, Tom Homan, who has done an incredible job in just a short period of time. Tom. Get up here. I know you’re just
Tom is determined to rid our nation of cartels and criminals who are preying on our citizens. And I can only say to Tom, "Keep up the great work." He’s a tough guy. He’s a tough cookie. Somebody said the other day They saw him on television. Somebody that were interviewed after that, they said, "He looks very nasty. He looks very mean." I said, "That’s what I’m looking for." That’s exactly what I was looking for.
And for that, I want to congratulate John Kelly, who has done an incredible job of Secretary of Homeland Security. Incredible. One of our real stars. Truly one of our stars. John Kelly is one of our great stars. You know, the borders down 78%. under past administrations, the border didn’t go down it went up. But if it went down 1%, it was like, this was a great thing. Down 78%. And, in fact, the Southern border of Mexico? We did them a big favor. Believe me. They get very little traffic in there anymore because they know they’re not going to get through the border to the United States. So, that whole group has been incredible. Led by General Kelly.
Let me also express our gratitude to the members of the New York delegation here today. Congressman Chris Collins. Where’s Chris? Where’s Chris? Oh. Chris. Right from the beginning, he said, "Trump is going to win." Trump is going to win. That’s why I like him. I didn’t like him that much before now. I love him. I’ll never Dan Donovan. Thanks, Dan. Thank you, Dan. And Lee Zeldin, who I supported right from the beginning when they said he didn’t have a chance of beating a pretty popular incumbent. And I saw him in a debate, I said, "I think this guy’s going to win." But he fought a pretty popular guy. And I said, "I think he’s going to win." And went heavy for him and he won. And he won pretty easily, didn’t you? Pretty good. I’m proud of you. Great job.
And, of course, a legend, somebody that we all know very well, sort of my neighbor because I consider him a neighbor, but he’s really a great and highly respected man in Washington, Congressman Peter King. Very respected guy. He is a respected man that people like to ask opinions of. I do. Congressman King and his colleagues know the terrible pain and violence MS-13 has inflicted upon this community and this country. And if you remember, just a little more than two years ago, when I came down the escalator with Melania and I made the speech. People coming into this country, everyone said, "What does he know? What’s he talking about?" And there was Bedlam. Remember Bedlam? And then about two months later, they said, "You know, he’s right." So I’m honored to have brought it to everybody’s attention, but the suffering and the pain that we were going through And now you can look at the numbers. It’s a whole different world. And it will get better and better and better because we’ve been able to start nipping it in the bud. We’ve nipped it in the bud. Let’s call it, "Start nipping it in the. In the bud."
And MS-13, the cartel, has spread gruesome bloodshed throughout the United States. We’ve gotten a lot of them out of here. Big, big percentage. But the rest of coming. They’ll be out of here quickly, right? Quickly. Good.
So, I asked Tom on the plane He was ever in Air Force One, I said, "How do you like it?" He said, "I like it." But I said, "Hey, Tom, let me ask you a question. How tough are these guys? MS-13?" He said-
Tom, let me ask you a question. How tough are these guys, MS-13? He said, "They’re nothing compared to my guys. Nothing." And that’s what you need. Sometimes that’s what you need. Right? For many years, they exploited America’s weak borders and lax immigration enforcement to bring drugs and violence to cities and towns all across America. They’re there right now because of weak political leadership, weak leadership, weak policing, and in many cases, because the police weren’t allowed to do their job. I’ve met police that are great police that aren’t allowed to do their job because they have a pathetic mayor, or a mayor doesn’t know what’s going on. Were you applauding for someone in particular? It’s sad. It’s sad. You look at what’s happening, it’s sad. But hopefully, certainly in the country, those days are over. You may have a little bit longer to wait. But from now on, we’re going to enforce our laws, protect our borders and support our police like our police have never been supported before. We’re going to support you like you’ve never been supported before.
Few communities have suffered worse at the hands of these MS-13 thugs than the people of Long Island. Hard to believe. I grew up on long Island. I didn’t know about this. I didn’t know about this. And then all of a sudden, this is like a new phenomena. Our hearts and our nation grieve for the victims and their families. Since January 16th, think of this, MS-13 gang members have brutally murdered 17 beautiful young lives in this area on Long Island alone. Think of it. They butchered those little girls. They kidnap, they extort, they rape and they rob. They prey on children. They shouldn’t be here. They stomp on their victims, they beat them with clubs, they slash them with machetes, and they stab them with knives. They have transformed peaceful parks and beautiful quiet neighborhoods into blood stained killing fields. They’re animals.
We cannot tolerate as a society the spilling of innocent, young, wonderful, vibrant people, sons and daughters, even husbands and wives. We cannot accept this violence one day more. Can’t do it. And we’re not going to do it. Because of you, we’re not going to be able to do it. You’re not going to allow it to happen. And we’re backing you up 100%. Remember that, 100%.
It is the policy of this administration to dismantle, decimate, and eradicate MS-13 at every other  And I have to say, MS- 13, that’s a name. Rough groups, that’s fine. We’ve got a lot of others. And they were all let in here over a relatively short period of time. Not during my period of time, believe me, but we’re getting them out. They’re going to jails, and then they’re going back to their country. Or, they’re going back to their country, period.
One by one, we’re liberating our American towns. Can you believe that I’m saying that? I’m talking about liberating our towns. It’s like I’d see in a movie. They’re liberating the town, like in the old wild West, right? We’re liberating our towns. I never thought I’d be standing up here talking about liberating the towns on Long Island, where I grew up, but that’s what you’re doing. And I can tell you, I saw some photos where Tom’s guys, rough guys, they’re rough. I don’t want to be, I don’t want to, you know, say it because they’ll say that’s not politically correct. You’re not allowed to have rough people doing this kind of work. We have to get  Just like they don’t want to have rich people at the head of Treasury. Okay?
Like, I want a rich guy at the head of Treasury, right? Right? Right? I want a rich guy at the head of Commerce, because we’ve been screwed so badly on trade deals, I want people that made a lot of money now to make a lot of money for our country. And by the way, as I was walking up, they just gave me the numbers. Our numbers just came out this morning. GDP is up double from what it was in the first quarter. 2.6%. We’re doing well. We’re doing really well. And we took off all those restrictions and some we’re statutorily stuck with for a little while. But eventually that statute comes up and we’re going to be able to cut a lot more. But we’ve sort of liberated the world of creating jobs, like you’re liberating us and the people that live in areas.
But I have to say, one by one, we are indeed freeing up these great American towns and cities that are under siege from gang violence. Look at Los Angeles. Look at what’s going on in Los Angeles. Look at Chicago. What is going on? Is anybody here from Chicago? We have to send some of you to Chicago, I think. What’s going on? I mean, you see what’s happening there? Do we agree? Is there something maybe  Is there something 
I have to tell you one Chicago story. So, Chicago is having this unbelievable violence. People being killed. Four, five, six in a weekend, and I’m saying what is going on? When I was running, we had motorcycle brigades take us to the planes and stuff. And one of the guys, really good, you could see a really respected officer, police officer. He was at the head. He was the boss. And you could see he was the boss. He actually talked like the boss, come on, get lined up, because I’d always take pictures with the police, because I did that. My guys said don’t do it. Don’t do it. Other candidates didn’t do it, that I was beating by 40 points. Can you believe it? But I did it. Maybe that’s why I was winning by 40 points, but other candidates wouldn’t do it. But I always took the pictures with the police.
But we’re in Chicago and we had massive motorcycle brigades. And you know, those people have to volunteer. I don’t know if you know that, but from what I understand they have to volunteer. And I had the biggest brigades. I had brigades sometimes with almost 300 motorcycles. Even I was impressed. I’d look ahead and it was nothing but motorcycles, because they’d volunteer from all of the various states. But this one guy was impressive. He was a rough cookie and really respected guy. I could see he was respected. And he’s like, "All right, come on, get over here, get over here. He’s got to get to work. Get over here." And I said, "So let me tell you, you’re from Chicago?" "Yes, sir." I said, "What the hell is going on?" And he said, "It’s a problem can be straightened out." I said, "ow long would it take you to straighten out this problem?" He said, "If he gave me the authority, couple of days. I really mean it." I said, "You really think so?" He said, "A couple of days. We know all the bad ones."
I said, you really think so? He said a couple of days. We know all the bad ones, we know them all. And he said, the office is you guys, you know all the bad ones in your area, you know them by their names. I said, we know them all. A couple of days. I said, you’ve got to be kidding. Now this is a year and a half ago. I said, give me your card. And he gave me a card and I sent it to the mayor. I said, you ought to try using this guy. Guess what happened? Never heard. And last week they had another record. It’s horrible, but we’re just getting started. We will restore law and order on Long Island. We’ll bring back justice to the United States. I’m very happy to have gotten a great justice of the United States Supreme court, not only nominated but approved. And by the way, your second amendment is safe.
Your second amendment is safe. I feel very good about that. Wasn’t looking so good for the second amendment. Was it? Huh? If Trump doesn’t win, your second amendment is gone. Your second amendment would be gone. But I have a simple message today for every gang member and criminal alien that are threatening, so violently, our people. We will find you, we will arrest you, we will jail you and we will deport you. And we had some problems with certain countries, still do with a couple, but we’ll take care of them. Don’t worry about it. Anytime we have a trade deficit, it’s very easy, which is almost everywhere. We have trade deficits with almost every country, because we had a lot of really bad negotiators making deals with other countries. So it’s almost everywhere. So that takes care of itself. But we had certain countries in South America where they wouldn’t take the people back.
I said, that’s okay, no more trade. All of a sudden they started taking their people back. It’s amazing. Isn’t it? They used to send to the former secretary of state of the country, please call, would you please work it so that we could take? And they used to just tell her, no, we won’t take back. They take back with us every single time. We’re having very little problem. Are we having any problem right now with that? Huh? You better believe it. Give me the names of the few problems. We’ll take care of it, I’m telling you. It’s unbelievable. One of the people that represented the other administration, I said, why didn’t you use that? The power of economic? Sir, we think one thing has nothing to do with another. I said, oh, really? So we’ll have big deficits and they won’t take back these criminals that came from there and should be back there?
Well, believe me to me, everything matters, but they’re all taking them back. I saw offices recently conducted the largest crackdown on criminal gangs in the history of our country. In just six weeks, ICE and our law enforcement partners arrested nearly 1,400 suspects and sees more than 200 illegal firearms and some beauties and nearly 600 pounds of narcotics. The men and women of ICE are turning the tide in the battle against MS-13, but we need more resources from Congress and we’re getting them. Congress is actually opening up and really doing a job. They should have approved healthcare last night, but you can’t have everything. Boy, oh, boy. They’ve been working on that one for seven years. Can you believe that? The swamp, but we’ll get it done. We’re going to get it done. I said from the beginning, let Obamacare implode and then do it. I turned out to be right. Let Obamacare implode.
Right now we have less than 6,000 enforcement and removal officers in ICE. This is not enough to protect a nation of more than 320 million people. It’s essential that Congress fund another 10,000 ICE officers, and we’re asking for that, so that we can eliminate MS-13 and root out the criminal cartels from our country. Now we’re getting them out anyway, but we would like to get them out a lot faster. And when you see these towns and when you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a patty wagon, you just see them thrown in rough. I said, please, don’t be too nice. Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you’re protecting their head, the way you put their hand over Like don’t hit their head and they’ve just killed somebody. Don’t hit their head. I said, you can take the hand away. Okay? It’s essential that Congress fund hundreds more federal immigration judges and prosecutors. And we need them quickly.
If we’re going to dismantle these deadly networks and I have to tell you, the laws are so horrendously stacked against us because for years and years, they’ve been made to protect the criminal. Totally made to protect the criminal, not the offices. You do something wrong, you’re in more jeopardy than they are. These laws are stacked against you. We’re changing those laws. But in the meantime, we need judges for the simplest thing, things that you should be able to do without a judge, but we have to have those judges quickly. In the meantime, we’re trying to change the laws. We’re also working with chairman Bob Goodlatte on a series of enforcement measures, and he’s a terrific guy, to keep our country safe from crime and terrorism. And in particular, radical Islamic terrorism. A term never uttered by past administration, never uttered. Did anybody ever hear that term? I don’t think so.
But you heard it from me. That includes cracking down on sanctuary cities that defy federal law, shield visa overstays, and that release dangerous criminals back into the United States communities. That’s what’s happening. They’re releasing them so many deaths where they release somebody back into the community, and they know it’s going to end that way. That’s the sad They know it’s going to end that way. We’re ending those procedures. We have to secure Thank you. I spoke to parents, incredible parents. I got to know so many parents of children that were so horribly killed, burned to death, beaten to death, just the worst kind of death you can ever Stuffed in barrels. And the person that did it was released. And you would look at the file, and they were letter after letter, after letter of people begging not to let this animal back into society, that this would happen.
It would happen quickly. It wasn’t even like it would happen over a long period of time. They were saying it would happen quickly. It’s total violence. He’s a totally violent person. You cannot let this person out. They let the person out. And sometimes it would happen on the first day. And then you have to talk to the parents and hold the parents and hug them and they’re crying. I mean, crying, their lives are destroyed. And nobody thinks about those people. They don’t think about those people. They’re devastated, but we’re ending so much of that. We’re ending hopefully all of that. The laws are tough. The laws are stacked against us, but we’re ending them.
So we’re going to secure our border against illegal entry, and we will build the wall. That I can tell you. In fact last night, you don’t read about this too much, but it was approved, 1.6 billion for the phase one of the wall, which is not only design but the start of construction over a period of about two years, but the start of construction for a great border wall. And we’re going to build it. The wall is vital, and vital as a tool for ending the humanitarian disaster, really brought on by drug smugglers, and new words that we haven’t heard too much of human traffickers. This is a term that’s been going on from the beginning of time, and they say it’s worse now than it ever was. You go back a thousand years, when you think of human trafficking, you go back 500 years, 200 years, 100 years, human trafficking they say, think of it, what they do. Human trafficking is worse now maybe than it’s ever been in the history of this world.
We need a wall. We also need it though for the drugs, because the drugs aren’t going through walls very easily, especially the walls that I build. I’m a very good builder. You people know that better than most because you live in the area. That’s why I’m here. We’ll build a good wall. We’re going to build a real wall. We’re going to build a wall that works, and it’s going to have a huge impact on the inflow of drugs coming across. The wall is almost  that could be one of the main reasons you have to have it. It’s an additional tool to stop the inflow of drugs into our country.
The previous administration enacted an open door policy to illegal immigrants from Central America. Welcome in, come in please, please. As a result, MS-13 surge into the country and scoured and just absolutely destroyed so much in front of it. New arrivals came in and they were all made recruits of each other, and they fought with each other and then they fought outside of each other and it got worse and worse. We’ve turned that back. In the three years before I took office, more than 150,000 unaccompanied alien minors arrived at the border and were released all throughout our country into United States communities, at a tremendous monetary cost to local taxpayers, and also a great cost to life and safety. Nearly 4,000 from this wave were released into Suffolk County. Congratulations. Including seven who are now indicted for murder. You know about that. In Washington DC region, at least 42 alien minors from the border surge have been recently implicated in MS-13 related violence, including 19 charged in killings or attempted killings. You say, "What happened to the old days where people came into this country, they worked and they worked and they worked and they had families and they paid taxes and they did all sorts of things and their families got stronger and they were closely knit." We don’t see that. Failure to enforce our immigration laws had predictable results: drugs, gangs, and violence. But that’s all changing now. Under the Trump administration, America is once more a nation of laws and once again a nation that stands up for our law enforcement officers. We will defend our country, protect our communities and put the safety of the American people first. And I’m doing that with law enforcement and we’re doing that with trade and we’re doing that with so much else. It’s called America first. It’s called that expression I’m sure you’ve never heard of, make America great again. Has anybody heard that expression? Have you heard that? That is my promise to each of you. That is the oath I took as president. And that is my sacred pledge to the American people. Thank you everyone here today. You are really special, special Americans. And thank you in particular to the great police sheriffs and ICE officers. You do a spectacular job. The country loves you. The country respects you. You don’t hear it, but believe me, they respect you as much as they respect anything. There is the respect about our country. You are spectacular people.
Because of the danger of your job, which people also understand fully, I leave you with the following. Thank you and may God bless you. May God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you so much.  That's so nice.  Isn't he a great guy.  He doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it.  It's just not fair.  And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party.  Also, also the people of Iowa.  They have something in common.  Hard-working people.  They want to work, they want to make the country great.  I love the people of Iowa.  So that's the way it is.  Very simple.
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job.  The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused.  Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible.  In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray.  Very simple.  Politicians are all talk, no action.  They are all talk and no action.  And it's constant; it never ends.
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican.  And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians.  Because they let the president get away with absolute murder.  You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to — .  Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.
You look at Obamacare.  A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster.  People are closing up shops.  Doctors are quitting the business.  I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy.  He said, I have more accountants than I have patients.  And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business.  And he was very successful guy.  But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website.  I have many websites, many, many websites.  They're all over the place.  But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie.  It was a filthy lie.  And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted?  Does anyone do anything?  And what are the Republican politicians doing about it?  He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect.  You can keep your plan.  And you've all heard that hundreds of times.  That's like the real estate location, location.  I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location.  But you have heard this about Obamacare.
And it's disgraceful.  It's a big, fat, horrible lie.  Your deductibles are going through the roof.  You're not going to get — unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage.  And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore.  So it's a real, real disaster.  And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence.  And it's got to be a beauty.  Who can build better than Trump?  I build; it's what I do.  I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings.  Fences are easy, believe me.  I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border.  They're walking.  The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country.  It is so terrible.  It is so unfair.  It is so incompetent.  And we don't have the best coming in.  We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks.  You can certainly have terrorists.  You can certainly have Islamic terrorists.  You can have anything coming across the border.  We don't do anything about it.  So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.
Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it.  Benghazi.  Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi.  Everything is Benghazi.  What happens?  Nothing.
IRS, e-mails.  I get sued all the time, okay.  I run a big business.  You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful.  I have done so many deals.  Almost all of them have been tremendously successful.  You'll see that when I file my statements.  I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay.  But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president.  Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many —   Look, Obama, what did he do?  No deal.  He never did a deal.  He did one deal.  A house.  And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay.  He got away with murder.  But I can tell you, e-mails.  IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost.  If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost.  So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it.  Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great.  But they talk about it.  And then you have a president that does an executive order.  Nobody even heard of an executive order.  He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders.  Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment — which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that — why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier.  Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it.  We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed.  So we have to do something.
Jobs.  China.  I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese.  One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it.  And I know them.  And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with.  We can't believe how stupid your leaders are.  They tell me that.  Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not.  But they tell me that.
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much — goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries.  The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation.  I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing.  They are devaluing down to nothing.  And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete.  And they're getting away with it.  And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it.  But you watch this devaluation of all of it.  I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing.  And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good.  You know it's one of those things, sounds good.  Be very careful.  Be very careful.  Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing.  They have it set.  Don't forget another thing.  China became the number one economic power a year ago.  That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen.  It was absolutely unthinkable.  So it happened and it's very, very sad.
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq.  We got nothing.  They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us.  Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us.  We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS.  By the way, you know how they formed.  They took the oil.  And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump — there are some of you — have I been saying for four years, keep the oil.  So now ISIS has the oil.  And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take.  So we get nothing.  We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have.  I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people.  And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military.  But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast.  We have incompetent people.  They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing.  It needs money.
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security.  'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security.  I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid.  Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security.  And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue.  It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons.  We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast.  We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon.  We can't do it.  Can't do it.  We cannot let that happen.  You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.
Here we are in Syria.  We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria.  Think of this.  We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government.  Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay.  But think of it; think of it.  ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall.  There are so many things; there are so many things.
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about  too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear.  Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles.  You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable.  The power.  And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens.  We've never had this before.
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there.  We're trying to do the right thing.  We have leadership, again — no leadership respects us.  You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find.  The same thing is happening there.  And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals.  And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals.  They're taking it out.  Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals.  So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker.  It's really, really crazy.
So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country.  If we don't —   The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed.  Bridges are collapsing all over the country.  The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai.  I go to various different places.  I go to China.  They are building a bridge on every corner.  They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff.  They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen.  They are building airports in Qatar — which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.  But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen.  And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes.  The place is falling apart.  You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart.  And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt.  So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place.  This is inside, not outside.  And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen.  In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor.  I said it's not an honor; they're just smart.  But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.
You look at all of the things that are bad —   I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails.  You know the guard rails.  The ones that sort of go like this that are always  bent, rusted and horrible.  Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes.  Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years.  Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works.  Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening.  Somebody made a lot of money on that.  They don't know what is happening.
So we have to make our country great again.  We have to rebuild our country.  And we have a long way to go.  We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money.  Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it.  We owe it to other countries.  They're the ones that hold the debt.  And then we give them money.  We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies.  I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know —   No American company comes to see and comes to bid.  It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them.  What are we doing; why aren't they paying us?  Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing?  I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea.  You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea.  Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?
Now, we have a very important election coming up.  We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people.  Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details.  We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed.  He failed.  I mean I liked him.  Look — like him, dislike him — the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away.  The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away.  What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.  It's not fair because it was a long t —   That doesn't work.  But more importantly, he choked.  Something happened to him in the last month.  He had that election won.  And let me tell you something.  That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal.  I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it.  Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament.  And there are many of them.  Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that.  You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president.  I really do.  I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true.  So you can't have Romney.  He choked.
You can't have Bush.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing —   You know they copied it.  I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing.  But I said it.  I was the one that said it first, and I mean it.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.  But he's totally in favor of Common Core.  He's very, very weak on immigration.  Don't forget — remember his statement — they come for love.  I say, what?  Come for love?  You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals.  They're coming for love?  They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love.  And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama.  I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama.  'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months.  And then he appointed Justice Roberts.  And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts.  And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes.  So you can't have Jeb Bush.  And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win.  So Mitt and — you just can't have those two.  That's it.  That's it.  It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important.  And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters.  And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet.  He is reading it.  I mean give me a break.  Everything is read.  You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk.  And that's what we ended up getting — the king of teleprompters.  But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing.  No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that.  But we have to do something about these teleprompters.
But in looking at these situations —   I built an incredible company.  And you'll see that.  An incredible company; a wonderful company.  I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing.  And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix.  We have such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in:
creating jobs;
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists — and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit — so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border — and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere;
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country.  And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody.  And everybody can be covered.  I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.  Everybody can be c —  This plan is just a basic disaster.  Nobody knows.  As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports.  And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump.  I just got the best hotel in North America.  I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one.  I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress. Right on Penn.  The  Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama.  Do you believe that?  And everybody wanted it.  So, I can't believe it myself.  But it's going to be fantastic;
and so many other things.
I know what needs to be done to make America great again.  We can make this country great again.  The potential is enormous.  And I am serious thinking of running for president because I can do the job.
Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  Beautiful.  Thank you.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for National Interest for honoring me with this invitation. It truly is a great honor. I’d like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.
It’s time to shake the rust off America’s foreign policy. It’s time to invite new voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to do. The direction I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign policy will always put the interests of the American people and American security above all else. It has to be first. Has to be.
That will be the foundation of every single decision that I will make.
America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. But to chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. We have a lot to be proud of.
In the 1940s we saved the world. The greatest generation beat back the Nazis and Japanese imperialists. Then we saved the world again. This time, from totalitarianism and communism. The Cold War lasted for decades but, guess what, we won and we won big. Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan, our great president, when he said, tear down this wall.
History will not forget what he did. A very special man and president. Unfortunately, after the Cold War our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed to develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign policy began to make less and less sense. Logic was replaced with foolishness and arrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after another.
They just kept coming and coming. We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Libya, to President Obama’s line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have helped to throw the region into chaos and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow and prosper. Very bad. It all began with a dangerous idea that we could make western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in becoming a western democracy.
We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleashed. Civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of Americans and just killed be lives, lives, lives wasted. Horribly wasted. Many trillions of dollars were lost as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.
They have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. Our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster. No vision. No purpose. No direction. No strategy. Today I want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.
First, our resources are totally over extended. President Obama has weakened our military by weakening our economy. He’s crippled us with wasteful spending, massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. Our manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year.
We’re rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. Ending the theft of American jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military, which has to happen and regain our financial independence and strength. I am the only person running for the presidency who understands this and this is a serious problem.
I’m the only one — believe me, I know them all, I’m the only one who knows how to fix it.
Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and I’ve been talking about this recently a lot. Our allies must contribute toward their financial, political, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden. But many of them are simply not doing so.
They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to honor their agreements with us. In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member countries besides America, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of GDP on defense. We have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes, missiles, ships, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe and Asia.
The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if not, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. We have no choice.
The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common defense and security. A Trump administration will lead a free world that is properly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.
Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they can’t depend on us. We’ve had a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies, something that we’ve never seen before in the history of our country. He negotiated a disastrous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms even before the ink was dry. Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed. Remember that, cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.
And under a Trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that nuclear weapon.
All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Iran’s treatment of our ten captured sailors — so vividly I remember that day. In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table.
When the other side knows you’re not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win — you just can’t win. At the same time, your friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. You’ve made that agreement, you have to stand by it and the world will be a better place. President Obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our missile defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic. He supported the ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel, and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.
Israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the Middle East has been snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel, a force for justice and peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.
President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender love and care and made it a great power. Iran has, indeed, become a great, great power in just a very short period of time, because of what we’ve done. All of the expense and all at the expense of Israel, our allies in the region and very importantly, the United States itself.
We’ve picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they’re starting to look elsewhere for help. Remember that. Not good.
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. In fact, they’re just as confused as our allies, but in an even bigger problem is they don’t take us seriously anymore. The truth is they don’t respect us. When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air Force One, no leader was there, nobody, to greet him.
Perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air Force One. Then amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia. It’s called no respect. Absolutely no respect.
Do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen, Denmark, to get the Olympics for our country, and after this unprecedented effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth — fourth place? The president of the United States making this trip — unprecedented — comes in fourth place. He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment. We were laughed at all over the world, as we have been many, many times.
The list of humiliations go on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with its nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assault on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverage on China necessary to rein in North Korea. We have the leverage. We have the power over China, economic power, and people don’t understand it. And with that economic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do with North Korea, which is totally out of control.
He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and engaged in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies. We’ve let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and they do. They do at will. It always happens. If President Obama’s goal had been to weaken America, he could not have done a better job.
Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals. Since the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, we’ve lacked a coherent foreign policy. One day, we’re bombing Libya and getting rid of a dictator to foster democracy for civilians. The next day, we’re watching the same civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart. Lives lost, massive moneys lost. The world is a different place.
We’re a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions will be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. We’ve made the Middle East more unstable and chaotic than ever before. We left Christians subject to intense persecution and even genocide.
We have done nothing to help the Christians, nothing, and we should always be ashamed for that, for that lack of action. Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria have helped unleash ISIS, and we’re in a war against radical Islam, but President Obama won’t even name the enemy, and unless you name the enemy, you will never ever solve the problem.
Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary Clinton’s failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep. Incredible.
Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be absolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state misled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 o’clock in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars a week selling Libya oil. And you know what? We don’t blockade, we don’t bomb, we don’t do anything about it. It’s almost as if our country doesn’t even know what’s happening, which could be a fact and could be true. This will all change when I become president.
To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is going to be reliable again. It’s going to be a great and reliable ally again. It’s going to be a friend again. We’re going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies.
We’re getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on creating stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when politics ended at the water’s edge. We need a new rational American foreign policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be by both parties — Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our close allies.
This is how we won the Cold War and it’s how we will win our new future struggles, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become president.
First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam. Containing the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military force, but it’s also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold War.
In this, we’re going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and everything else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.
We should work — thank you.
We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street. They must also be good to us. Remember that. They have to be good to us, no longer one way. It’s now two-way. And remember, us and all we’re doing, they have to appreciate what we’ve done to them. We’re going to help, but they have to appreciate what we’ve done for them. The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our homeland. There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. For every case known to the public, there are dozens and dozens more. We must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. We have no idea where these people are coming from. There’s no documentation. There’s no paperwork. There’s nothing. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.
A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or frankly, much worse. All you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and September 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single greatest military catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than Pearl Harbor because you take a look at what’s happened, and citizens were attacked, as opposed to the military being attacked — one of the true great catastrophes.
And then there’s ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are numbered. I won’t tell them where and I won’t tell them how. We must...
We must as a nation be more unpredictable. We are totally predictable. We tell everything. We’re sending troops. We tell them. We’re sending something else. We have a news conference. We have to be unpredictable. And we have to be unpredictable starting now.
But they’re going to be gone. ISIS will be gone if I’m elected president. And they’ll be gone quickly. They will be gone very, very quickly.
Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. The Russians and Chinese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at what’s happened to us. Our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been allowed to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal. And it has to happen immediately. Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in 1991 to about 1.3 million today. The Navy has shrunk from over 500 ships to 272 ships during this same period of time. The Air Force is about one-third smaller than 1991. Pilots flying B-52s in combat missions today. These planes are older than virtually everybody in this room.
And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense budget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were spending in 2011. Our military is depleted and we’re asking our generals and military leaders to worry about global warming.
We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest, single investment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment known to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned, and I mean unquestioned, by anybody and everybody.
But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of mounting debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to address the problem. But I do. No one dollar can be wasted. Not one single dollar can we waste. We’re also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic policies to make our economy strong again. And to put Americans first again.
This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and higher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might as a nation, make us strong financially again. So, so important. We need to think smart about areas where our technological superiority, and nobody comes close, gives us an edge.
This includes 3D printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. A great country also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute, and I mean absolute. A Trump administration will give our servicemen and women the best equipment and support in the world when they serve and where they serve. And the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back home to civilian life. Our veterans...
Our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. These are our great people and we must treat them fairly. We must even treat them really, really well and that will happen under the Trump administration.
Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests. Businesses do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and neither do countries. Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania — and this was a horrible time for us — were attacked. and 17 brave sailors were killed on the U.S.S. Cole.
And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China into the World Trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the United States. Frankly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping Al Qaeda. We even had an opportunity to take out Osama bin Laden and we didn’t do it
And then we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Again, the worst attack on our country in its history. Our foreign policy goals must be based on America’s core national security interests. And the following will be my priorities.
In the Middle East our goals must be, and I mean must be, to defeat terrorists and promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clearsighted about the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. And believe me, we have groups that no matter what you do, they will be the enemy.: We have to be smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not help them. And we must only be generous to those that prove they are indeed our friends.
We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have serious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes, but we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on shared interests.
Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism. I believe an easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of strength only is possible, absolutely possible. Common sense says this cycle, this horrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon. Good for both countries.
Some say the Russians won’t be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we can’t make a deal under my administration, a deal that’s great — not good, great — for America, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the table. It’s as simple as that. We’re going to find out.
Fixing our relations with China is another important step — and really toward creating an even more prosperous period of time. China respects strength and by letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never before, we have lost all of their respect.
We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit that we have to find a way quickly, and I mean quickly, to balance. A strong and smart America is an America that will find a better friend in China, better than we have right now. Look at what China is doing in the South China Sea. They’re not supposed to be doing it.
No respect for this country or this president. We can both benefit or we can both go our separate ways. If need be, that’s what’s going to have to happen.
After I’m elected president, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allies and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not only discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges. For instance, we will discuss how we can upgrade NATO’s outdated mission and structure, grown out of the Cold War to confront our shared challenges, including migration and Islamic terrorism.
I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But if America fights, it must only fight to win.
I will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a capital V.
Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. The best way to achieve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign policy. With President Obama and Secretary Clinton we’ve had the exact opposite — a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one that has blazed the path of destruction in its wake.
After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far worst shape in the Middle East than ever, ever before. I challenge anyone to explain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama/Clinton. It has been a complete and total disaster.
I will also be prepared to deploy America’s economic resources. Financial leverage and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use them selectively and with total determination. Our power will be used if others do not play by the rules. In other words, if they do not treat us fairly. Our friends and enemies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce that line in the sand. Believe me.
However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A superpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strength. Although not in government service, I was totally against the war in Iraq, very proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East. Sadly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary has been has been Iran, who is systematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil reserves, something it has wanted to do for decades.
And now, to top it off, we have ISIS. My goal is to establish a foreign policy that will endure for several generations. That’s why I also look and have to look for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than surrounding myself with those who have perfect resumes but very little to brag about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses at war. We have to look to new people.
We have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly don’t know what they’re doing, even though they may look awfully good writing in The New York Times or being watched on television.
Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and institutions. Instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody shares or wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western civilization and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms around the world than military interventions.
These are my goals as president. I will seek a foreign policy that all Americans, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our friends and allies will respect and totally welcome. The world must know that we do not go abroad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies become friends and when old friends become allies, that’s what we want. We want them to be our allies.
We want the world to be — we want to bring peace to the world. Too much destruction out there, too many destructive weapons. The power of weaponry is the single biggest problem that we have today in the world.
To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its leadership. Again, many Americans must wonder why we our politicians seem more interested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their own. Americans.
Americans must know that we’re putting the American people first again on trade.
So true. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. The jobs, incomes and security of the American worker will always be my first priority.
No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both our friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fair to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains the true foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions that tie us up and bring America down and will never enter.
And under my administration, we will never enter America into any agreement that reduces our ability to control our own affairs.
NAFTA, as an example, has been a total disaster for the United States and has emptied our states — literally emptied our states of our manufacturing and our jobs. And I’ve just gotten to see it. I’ve toured Pennsylvania. I’ve toured New York. I’ve toured so many of the states. They have been cleaned out. Their manufacturing is gone.
Never again, only the reverse — and I have to say this strongly — never again; only the reverse will happen. We will keep our jobs and bring in new ones. There will be consequences for the companies that leave the United States only to exploit it later. They fire the people. They take advantage of the United States. There will be consequences for those companies. Never again.
Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.
I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests. I will be America’s greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not apologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique heritage that makes us who we are.
The world is most peaceful and most prosperous when America is strongest. America will continue and continue forever to play the role of peacemaker. We will always help save lives and indeed humanity itself, but to play the role, we must make America strong again.
And always — always, always, we must make, and we have to look at it from every angle, and we have no choice, we must make America respected again. We must make America truly wealthy again. And we must — we have to and we will make America great again. And if we do that — and if we do that, perhaps this century can be the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. Thank you very much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.
A hand with little fingers coming out of a stem. Like, little. Look at my hands. They’re fine. Nobody other than Graydon Carter years ago used to use that. My hands are normal hands. During a debate, he was losing, and he said, "Oh, he has small hands and therefore, you know what that means." This was not me. This was Rubio that said, "He has small hands and you know what that means." Okay? So, he started it. So, what I said a couple of days later ... and what happened is I was on line shaking hands with supporters, and one of supporters got up and he said, "Mr. Trump, you have strong hands. You have good-sized hands." And then another one would say, "You have great hands, Mr. Trump, I had no idea." I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "I thought you were like deformed, and I thought you had small hands." I had fifty people ... Is that a correct statement? I mean people were writing, "How are Mr. Trump’s hands?" My hands are fine. You know, my hands are normal. Slightly large, actually. In fact, I buy a slightly smaller than large glove, okay? No, but I did this because everybody was saying to me, "Oh, your hands are very nice. They are normal." So Rubio, in a debate, said, because he had nothing else to say ... now I was hitting him pretty hard. He wanted to do his Don Rickles stuff and it didn’t work out. Obviously, it didn’t work too well. But one of the things he said was "He has small hands and therefore, you know what that means, he has small something else." You can look it up. I didn’t say it.
I don’t want people to go around thinking that I have a problem. I’m telling you, Ruth, I had so many people. I would say 25, 30 people would tell me ... every time I’d shake people’s hand, "Oh, you have nice hands." Why shouldn’t I? And, by the way, by saying that I solved the problem. Nobody questions ... I even held up my hands, and said, "Look, take a look at that hand."
I don’t know if it was presidential, honestly, whether it is or not. He said, ‘Donald Trump has small hands and therefore he has small something else.’ I didn’t say that. And all I did is when he failed, when he was failing, when he was, when Christie made him look bad, I gave him the– a little recap and I said, and I said, and I had this big strong powerful hand ready to grab him, because I thought he was going to faint. And everybody took it fine. Whether it was presidential or not I can’t tell you. I can just say that what he said was a lie. And everybody, they wanted to do stories on my hands; after I said that, they never did. And then I held up the hand, I showed people the hand. You know, when I’ve got a big audience. So yeah, I think it’s not a question of presidential ...
Oh boy. We love Nevada. We love Nevada. Thank you. Thank you. Oh this is a great place. Thank you very much. Great evening. We will be celebrating for a long time tonight. Have a good time. Have a good time.
You know we weren’t expecting—a couple of months ago, we weren’t expecting to win this one, you know that, right? We weren’t. Of course if you listen to the pundits, we weren’t expected to win too much, and now we’re winning, winning, winning the country. And soon the country’s going to start winning, winning, winning. So I want to thank the volunteers. They’ve been unbelievable. These people, they work like endlessly, endlessly. We’re not going to forget it. And we’ve had some great numbers coming out of Texas, and amazing numbers coming out of Tennessee and Georgia and Arkansas and then in a couple of weeks later Florida. We love Florida so. We’re going to do very well in Ohio. We’re beating the governor. It’s always nice to be beating the governor. And Michigan—the whole thing. It’s going to be an amazing two months.
We might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest. So tonight we had 45 to 46%, and tomorrow you’d hear them say, you know, if they could just take the other candidates and add them up, and if you could add them up because you know the other candidates amount to 55%. So if they could—they keep forgetting that when people drop out, we’re going to get a lot of votes. You know they keep forgetting.
So I want to begin by thanking my boys, Eric has been all over the place making speeches. He’s getting better than me so I’m a little jealous.
He loves the rifle stuff. This is serious rifle. This is serious NRA, both of them, both of them. We love the Second Amendment folks. Nobody loves it more than us, so just remember that.
And Corey and Hope, the staff, the whole group, and Charles and Dan and what a group we have. I want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are here, the owner of this incredible hotel, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Ruffin, stand up. Great guy. Phil said, "Donald,"—like for the last three months he’s driving me crazy, he said—"Donald, I want to put $10 million into your campaign." I said, "Phil I don’t want your money. I don’t want to do it. I’m self funding." Every time I see him. It’s hard for me to turn down money because that’s what I’ve done in my whole life. I grab and grab and grab. You know I get greedy. I want money, money.
I’ll tell you what we’re going to do, right? We get greedy, right? Now we’re going to get greedy for the United States. We’re going to grab and grab and grab. We’re going to bring in so much money and so much everything. We’re going to make America great again, folks, I’m telling you folks, we’re going to make America great again.
And another great friend of mine, someone respected by everybody, a great friend of Phil too—Mr. and Mrs. Steve Wynn. Stand up, Steve. Stand up. Two great people. Steve is always calling. He’s always got advice, right Steve? "Donald I think you should do this and that." His advice I like to listen to, I’ll be honest. So Phil and Steve and families, we appreciate it. You’ve been great friends. Thank you, thank you.
So this was very exciting tonight. But I’ll tell you it looks like we won by a lot evangelicals. I love evangelicals, and I have to tell you pastor Jeffress has been so incredible on television and elsewhere. He has been great. And as you know Liberty University—do we love Liberty University? Huh? Jerry Falwell Jr., an unbelievable guy, and he has been with us and with us from the beginning, and I want to thank Jerry and his family. It’s been amazing, the relationship. So we won the evangelicals.
We won with young. We won with old. We won with highly educated. We won with poorly educated. I love the poorly educated. We’re the smartest people, we’re the most loyal people, and you know what I’m happy about? Because I’ve been saying it for a long time. 46% were the Hispanics—46%, No. 1 one with Hispanics. I’m really happy about that.
So I’m very proud of you, this is an amazing night. I love the country, I love the country. We’re going in the wrong direction. We’re going to keep—as you know Gitmo, we’re keeping that open, and we’re going to load it up with bad dudes. We’re going to load it up w a lot of bad dudes out there. We’re going to have our borders nice and strong. We’re going to build the wall, you know that. We’re going to build the wall. And I have a lot of respect from Mexico, and you just heard we won Hispanics. But let me tell you Mexico is going to pay for the wall, right? It’s going to happen. It’s going to happen. They know it. I know it. We all know it.
We have a tremendous deficit. We have a trade deficit with Mexico. They’ll pay for the wall. They’ll be very happy about it. Believe me. I’ll talk to them. They’re going to be very, very thrilled. They’re going to be thrilled to be paying for the wall.
We’re going to be the smart people. We’re not going to be the people that get pushed around all over the place. We’re going to be the smart people. You’re going to be proud of your president, and you’re going to be even prouder of your country, OK?
So tonight folks, this was a great evening. I love this place. I love this state. I love Las Vegas. I have spent and invested so much money over here. Trump International Hotel—I keep telling Steve we have the best hotel in Las Vegas. He’s fighting me all the time. But that’s OK. But I just want to say it’s a great state, and they have great people. And I was so proud. You know, I went to caucus. I was all over the place tonight. The people are amazing. The enthusiasm, it was unbelievable to see.
The people of this country are absolutely amazing. I love you folks very much. Remember: Make America great again. We’re going to do it, and it’s going to happen fast. Thank you very much everybody. We love you. We love you.
Wow. Whoa. That is some group of people. Thousands.
So nice, thank you very much. That’s really nice. Thank you. It’s great to be at Trump Tower. It’s great to be in a wonderful city, New York. And it’s an honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybody’s expectations. There’s been no crowd like this.
And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. They didn’t know the air-conditioner didn’t work. They sweated like dogs.
They didn’t know the room was too big, because they didn’t have anybody there. How are they going to beat ISIS? I don’t think it’s gonna happen.
Our country is in serious trouble. We don’t have victories anymore. We used to have victories, but we don’t have them. When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let’s say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the time. All the time.
When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn’t exist, folks. They beat us all the time.
When do we beat Mexico at the border? They’re laughing at us, at our stupidity. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But they’re killing us economically.
The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else’s problems.
Thank you. It’s true, and these are the best and the finest. When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.
oh And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They’re sending us not the right people.
It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it’s coming probably — probably — from the Middle East. But we don’t know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don’t know what’s happening. And it’s got to stop and it’s got to stop fast.
Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. They’ve become rich. I’m in competition with them.
They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel. When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. They don’t have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should’ve taken.
So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don’t have, Iran has. And in 19 — and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said — and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we’ve ever had, and we need it more now than ever. But I said, "Don’t hit Iraq," because you’re going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq, and they’re taking it over big league.
We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love — they’re great — all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.
And we have nothing. We can’t even go there. We have nothing. And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.
Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees — these are big vehicles — were left behind for the enemy. 2,000? You would say maybe two, maybe four? 2,300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.
Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product — a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? It’s never below zero.
Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.
And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. Don’t believe the 5.6. Don’t believe it.
That’s right. A lot of people up there can’t get jobs. They can’t get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. They all have jobs.
But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it’s a statistic that’s full of nonsense.
Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesn’t work.
It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. They don’t know if it worked. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They don’t know what they’re doing. They don’t know what they’re doing."
We have a disaster called the big lie: Obamacare. Obamacare.
Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it’s virtually useless. It’s virtually useless. It is a disaster.TRUMP: And remember the $5 billion Web site? $5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it doesn’t work. A $5 billion Web site.
If and when the Vatican is attacked by ISIS, which as everyone knows is ISIS’s ultimate trophy, I can promise you that the Pope would have only wished and prayed that Donald Trump would have been President because this would not have happened. ISIS would have been eradicated unlike what is happening now with our all talk, no action politicians.
The Mexican government and its leadership has made many disparaging remarks about me to the Pope, because they want to continue to rip off the United States, both on trade and at the border, and they understand I am totally wise to them. The Pope only heard one side of the story - he didn’t see the crime, the drug trafficking and the negative economic impact the current policies have on the United States. He doesn’t see how Mexican leadership is outsmarting President Obama and our leadership in every aspect of negotiation.
For a religious leader to question a person’s faith is disgraceful. I am proud to be a Christian and as President I will not allow Christianity to be consistently attacked and weakened, unlike what is happening now, with our current President. No leader, especially a religious leader, should have the right to question another man’s religion or faith. They are using the Pope as a pawn and they should be ashamed of themselves for doing so, especially when so many lives are involved and when illegal immigration is so rampant.
I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do a Web site. It costs me $3. $5 billion Web site.
Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothing’s gonna get done. They will not bring us — believe me — to the promised land. They will not.
As an example, I’ve been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans. And they’re wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them. They don’t know how to bring it about. They come up to my office. I’m meeting with three of them in the next week. And they don’t know — "Are you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? How do we do it?"
I like them. And I hear their speeches. And they don’t talk jobs and they don’t talk China. When was the last time you heard China is killing us? They’re devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn’t believe. It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible. They’re killing us.
But you don’t hear that from anybody else. You don’t hear it from anybody else. And I watch the speeches.
Thank you.
I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. And people are saying, "What’s going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I don’t need the rhetoric. I want a job."
And that’s what’s happening. And it’s going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in ’16, 2016. Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might be on one of my courses. I would invite him, I actually would say. I have the best courses in the world, so I’d say, you what, if he wants to — I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac. If he’d like to play, that’s fine.
In fact, I’d love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.
But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly destructive. Doctors are quitting. I have a friend who’s a doctor, and he said to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. It’s a disaster. My patients are beside themselves. They had a plan that was good. They have no plan now."
We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be — and — and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody. But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.
So I’ve watched the politicians. I’ve dealt with them all my life. If you can’t make a good deal with a politician, then there’s something wrong with you. You’re certainly not very good. And that’s what we have representing us. They will never make America great again. They don’t even have a chance. They’re controlled fully — they’re controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.
Yes, they control them. Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. They’re great. But you know what? it won’t happen. It won’t happen. Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it’s destroying our country. We have to stop, and it has to stop now.
We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. Our vets have been abandoned.
And we also need a cheerleader.
You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I think he’ll do well. I think he’ll be a great cheerleader for the country. I think he’d be a great spirit."
He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.
He’s not a leader. That’s true. You’re right about that.
But he wasn’t a cheerleader. He’s actually a negative force. He’s been a negative force. He wasn’t a cheerleader; he was the opposite.
We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. It’s not great again.
We need — we need somebody — we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that.
And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. They’re saying, "Dad, you’re going to do something that’s going to be so tough."
You know, all of my life, I’ve heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office. Just can’t happen. And yet that’s the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.
So ladies and gentlemen...
I am officially running...
... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.
It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people.
We have people that aren’t working. We have people that have no incentive to work. But they’re going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job. And they’ll be proud, and they’ll love it, and they’ll make much more than they would’ve ever made, and they’ll be — they’ll be doing so well, and we’re going to be thriving as a country, thriving. It can happen.
I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that.
I’ll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places. I’ll bring back our jobs, and I’ll bring back our money.
Right now, think of this: We owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than that. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deal’s even better.
How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they?
I’m going to tell you — thank you. I’m going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I’m totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.
Number one, the people negotiating don’t have a clue. Our president doesn’t have a clue. He’s a bad negotiator.
He’s the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.
We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us. That’s the negotiator we have.
Take a look at the deal he’s making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe won’t exist very long. It’s a disaster, and we have to protect Israel. But...
So we need people — I’m a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you don’t have talented people, if you don’t have great leadership, if you don’t have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.
Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid. We have people that aren’t smart. And we have people that are controlled by special interests. And it’s just not going to work.
So, here’s a couple of stories happened recently. A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it. I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.
But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything — everything, they got away with it again. And it’s impossible for our people here to compete.
So I want to tell you this story. A friend of mine who’s a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago. He’s very upset. I said, "What’s your problem?"
He said, "You know, I make great product."
And I said, "I know. I know that because I buy the product."
He said, "I can’t get it into China. They won’t accept it. I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."
I said, "Oh, wait a minute, that’s terrible. Does anyone know this?"
He said, "Yeah, they do it all the time with other people."
I said, "They send it back?"
"Yeah. So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff. They’re not supposed to be doing that. I told them."
Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.
Ask Boeing. They wanted Boeing’s secrets. They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.
Hey, I’m not saying they’re stupid. I like China. I sell apartments for — I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed to dislike them? I own a big chunk of the Bank of America Building at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, that I got from China in a war. Very valuable.
I love China. The biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their United States headquarters is located? In this building, in Trump Tower. I love China. People say, "Oh, you don’t like China?"
No, I love them. But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can’t sustain ourself with that. There’s too much — it’s like — it’s like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. That’s the difference between China’s leaders and our leaders.
They are ripping us. We are rebuilding China. We’re rebuilding many countries. China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes. And they’re all over the place.
We have all the cards, but we don’t know how to use them. We don’t even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don’t understand the game. We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.
Now they’re going militarily. They’re building a military island in the middle of the South China sea. A military island. Now, our country could never do that because we’d have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldn’t let our country — we would never build in an ocean. They built it in about one year, this massive military port.
They’re building up their military to a point that is very scary. You have a problem with ISIS. You have a bigger problem with China.
And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico.
So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, "That’s a terrible story. I hate to hear it."
But I have another one, Ford.
So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out. Everybody thought the deal was dead. Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently. Everybody thought it was a done deal. It’s going in and that’s going to be it, going into Tennessee. Great state, great people.TRUMP: All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they’re not going to Tennessee. They’re gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexico instead. Not good.
Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2.5 billion, it’s going to be one of the largest in the world. Ford. Good company.
So I announced that I’m running for president. I would...
... one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in — and I wouldn’t even use — you know, I have — I know the smartest negotiators in the world. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the overrated ones.
You get a lot of them that are overrated. They’re not good. They think they are. They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph). But they’re not good.
But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country. Believe me, folks. We will do very, very well, very, very well.
But I wouldn’t even waste my time with this one. I would call up the head of Ford, who I know. If I was president, I’d say, "Congratulations. I understand that you’re building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you’re going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border."
And you say to yourself, "How does that help us," right? "How does that help us? Where is that good"? It’s not.
So I would say, "Congratulations. That’s the good news. Let me give you the bad news. Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we’re going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that’s it.
Now, here’s what is going to happen. If it’s not me in the position, it’s one of these politicians that we’re running against, you know, the 400 people that we’re (inaudible). And here’s what’s going to happen. They’re not so stupid. They know it’s not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it. But then they’re going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, "You can’t do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can’t do that to Ford."
And guess what? No problem. They’re going to build in Mexico. They’re going to take away thousands of jobs. It’s very bad for us.
So under President Trump, here’s what would happen:
The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news. But it could be he’d want to be cool, and he’ll wait until the next day. You know, they want to be a little cool.
And he’ll say, "Please, please, please." He’ll beg for a little while, and I’ll say, "No interest." Then he’ll call all sorts of political people, and I’ll say, "Sorry, fellas. No interest," because I don’t need anybody’s money. It’s nice. I don’t need anybody’s money.
I’m using my own money. I’m not using the lobbyists. I’m not using donors. I don’t care. I’m really rich. I (inaudible).
And by the way, I’m not even saying that in a — that’s the kind of mindset, that’s the kind of thinking you need for this country.
So — because we got to make the country rich.
It sounds crass. Somebody said, "Oh, that’s crass." It’s not crass.
We got $18 trillion in debt. We got nothing but problems.
We got a military that needs equipment all over the place. We got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.
We’ve got nothing. We’ve got Social Security that’s going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn’t bring money into the country. All these other people want to cut the hell out of it. I’m not going to cut it at all; I’m going to bring money in, and we’re going to save it.
But here’s what’s going to happen:
After I’m called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I’m called by all of the special interests and by the — the donors and by the lobbyists — and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero — I’ll get a call the next day from the head of Ford. He’ll say. "Please reconsider," I’ll say no.
He’ll say, "Mr. President, we’ve decided to move the plant back to the United States, and we’re not going to build it in Mexico." That’s it. They have no choice. They have no choice.
There are hundreds of things like that. I’ll give you another example.TRUMP: Saudi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. I love the Saudis. Many are in this building. They make a billion dollars a day. Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships. We say "we’re gonna protect." What are we doing? They’ve got nothing but money.
If the right person asked them, they’d pay a fortune. They wouldn’t be there except for us.
And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen. You remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory. Two weeks later, the place was blown up. Everybody got out — and they kept our equipment.
They always keep our equipment. We ought to send used equipment, right? They always keep our equipment. We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be — we ought to send our surplus. We’re always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.
But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen? Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They;re gone.
And I’m the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq. You know, all of these politicians that I’m running against now — it’s so nice to say I’m running as opposed to if I run, if I run. I’m running.
But all of these politicians that I’m running against now, they’re trying to disassociate. I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq. He couldn’t answer the question. He didn’t know. I said, "Is he intelligent?"
Then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing? He didn’t know. He couldn’t answer the question.
How are these people gonna lead us? How are we gonna — how are we gonna go back and make it great again? We can’t. They don’t have a clue. They can’t lead us. They can’t. They can’t even answer simple questions. It was terrible.
But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble. Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place. And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders. They were smarter than our leaders.
There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again. Because we need money. We’re dying. We’re dying. We need money. We have to do it. And we need the right people.
So Ford will come back. They’ll all come back. And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that’s based on competence.
So the reporter said to me the other day, "But, Mr. Trump, you’re not a nice person. How can you get people to vote for you?"
I said, "I don’t know." I said, "I think that number one, I am a nice person. I give a lot of money away to charities and other things. I think I’m actually a very nice person."
But, I said, "This is going to be an election that’s based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people. And they’re tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world. And they’re tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education. And some of them are like third world countries. But we’re becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything. So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what I’ll do. I’ll do it. Because a lot of people said, "He’ll never run. Number one, he won’t want to give up his lifestyle."
They’re right about that, but I’m doing it.
Number two, I’m a private company, so nobody knows what I’m worth. And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.
So I said, "That’s OK." I’m proud of my net worth. I’ve done an amazing job.
I started off — thank you — I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said — and I love my father. I learned so much. He was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a lot.
But he used to say, "Donald, don’t go into Manhattan. That’s the big leagues. We don’t know anything about that. Don’t do it."
I said, "I gotta go into Manhattan. I gotta build those big buildings. I gotta do it, Dad. I’ve gotta do it."
And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals — the Grand Hyatt Hotel. I was responsible for the convention center on the west side. I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young. And now I’m building all over the world, and I love what I’m doing.
But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is he’s private and he’s probably not as successful as everybody thinks."
So I said to myself, you know, nobody’s ever going to know unless I run, because I’m really proud of my success. I really am.
I’ve employed — I’ve employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. That means medical. That means education. That means everything.
So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because it’s big and complex, and they’ve put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary. But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don’t extensions or anything. We’ll be filing it right on time. We don’t need anything.
And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "He had assets of $9 billion." So I said (ph), "No, that’s the wrong number. That’s the wrong number. Not assets."
So they put together this. And before I say it, I have to say this. I made it the old-fashioned way. It’s real estate. You know, it’s real estate.
It’s labor, and it’s unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren’t in unions, and it’s all over the place and building all over the world.
And I have assets — big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected — 9 billion 240 million dollars.
And I have liabilities of about $500 million (ph). That’s long-term debt, very low interest rates.
In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, "Donald, you don’t have enough borrowings. Could we loan you $4 billion"? I said, "I don’t need it. I don’t want it. And I’ve been there. I don’t want it."
But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted. So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, it’ll be well-over $10 billion. But here, a total net worth of — net worth, not assets, not — a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets — Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York — many other places all over the world.
So the total is $8,737,540,00.
Now I’m not doing that...
I’m not doing that to brag, because you know what? I don’t have to brag. I don’t have to, believe it or not.
I’m doing that to say that that’s the kind of thinking our country needs. We need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking.
We have losers. We have losers. We have people that don’t have it. We have people that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down the drain.
So I put together this statement, and the only reason I’m telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years — you know, we’re at $8 trillion now. We’re soon going to be at $20 trillion.TRUMP: According to the economists — who I’m not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they’re saying — that $24 trillion — we’re very close — that’s the point of no return. $24 trillion. We will be there soon. That’s when we become Greece. That’s when we become a country that’s unsalvageable. And we’re gonna be there very soon. We’re gonna be there very soon.
I will immediately terminate President Obama’s illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.
Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.
Now, it’s very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are. And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump," and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns. I didn’t want guns. And now since this happened" — it’s up in the prison area — "my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. We now have a gun on every table. We’re ready to start shooting."
I said, "Very interesting."
So protect the Second Amendment.
End — end Common Core. Common Core should — it is a disaster. Bush is totally in favor of Common Core. I don’t see how he can possibly get the nomination. He’s weak on immigration. He’s in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy? You just can’t do it. We have to end — education has to be local.
Rebuild the country’s infrastructure.
Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.
I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad.
You know, we’re building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we’re converting it into one of the world’s great hotels. It’s gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington. The Obama administration. We got it. It was the most highly sought after — or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services. We got it. People were shocked, Trump got it.
Well, I got it for two reasons. Number one, we’re really good. Number two, we had a really good plan. And I’ll add in the third, we had a great financial statement. Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job. And they wanted to make sure it got built.
So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports. You come into La Guardia Airport, it’s like we’re in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt, and they throw.
You look at these airports, we are like a third world country. And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.
Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it.
Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. People have been paying it for years. And now many of these candidates want to cut it. You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that’s being lost.
Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.
Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we’re in a bubble. We have artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what’s happening. We have a stock market that is so bloated.
Be careful of a bubble because what you’ve seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful.
And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important.
Chris, thank you very much. I appreciate it.
This has been an amazing evening. Already, we’ve won five major states and it looks like we could win six or seven or eight or nine.
It’s really been — it’s really been great.
I want to congratulation Ted on the winning of Texas. He worked hard on he — I know how hard he worked actually, and so I congratulate Ted Cruz on that win. That was an excellent win.
We’re going to make America great again, folks. We’re going to make it great again.
And, you know, I watched Hillary’s speech and she’s talking about wages have been poor and everything’s poor and everything’s doing badly, but we’re going to make it — she’s been there for so long. I mean, if she hasn’t straightened it out by now, she’s not going to straighten it out in the next four years. It’s just going to become worse and worse. She wants to make America whole again and I’m trying to figure out what is that all about. Make America great again is going to be much better than making America whole again.
So I just want to say that this was an exciting evening. It’s so great to be in Florida. It’s so great to be at Mar-A-Lago with friends and the press and the media and everybody.
I know it was a very tough night for Marco Rubio. He had a tough night but he worked hard. He spent a lot of money. He is a lightweight, as I’ve said many times before. But you know what? We’re going to go to Florida, we’re going to spend so much time in Florida. We’ve got about a 20-point lead. I know that a lot of groups, a lot of the special interests and a lot of the lobbyists and the people that want to have their little senator do exactly as they want, they’re going to put $20 million or $25 million into it over the next two weeks, from what just came over the wires. And frankly, I think that’s fine. As far as I’m concerned, it’s fine. And if he wins, they’ll have totally controlled — total control. But he’s not going anywhere anyway, but we’ll see what happens. But we’re going to spend a lot of time in Florida.
The Virginia one was just a great win because it’s a place that is just spectacular and a place that we have big investments in, as we have in Florida. Remember, we have thousands of employees in Florida, all along Miami, Doral and Mar-A-Lago and so many other places. And it’s been an amazing place to invest. It’s been amazing to have so many wonderful employees, so many of whom are here tonight, really urging us on.
And you know, I have thousands of employees all over the country, actually, all over the world but for purposes of tonight, we’ll just say all over the country. And it’s been just so beautiful to watch this company grow and to watch it grow so strongly.
Recent articles came out talking about how great a company we built, and now we want to put that same ability into doing something for our nation. I mean, our nation is in serious trouble. We’re being chilled on trade, absolutely destroyed. China is just taking advantage of us. I have nothing against China. I have great respect for China, but their leaders are too smart for our leaders. Our leaders don’t have a clue and the trade deficits at $400 billion and $500 are too much. No country can sustain that kind of trade deficit. It won’t be that way for long. We have the greatest business leaders in the world on my team already and, believe me, we’re going to redo those trade deals and it’s going to be a thing of beauty.
You look at countries like Mexico, where they’re killing us on the border, absolutely destroying us on the border. They’re destroying us in terms of economic development. Companies like Carrier Air Conditioner just moving into Mexico. Ford, moving into Mexico. Nabisco, closing up shop in Chicago and moving into Mexico. We have to stop it, folks. I know how to stop it. We’re going to create jobs. We’re going to create jobs like you’ve never seen.
We’re going to lower taxes. I have a plan that Larry Kudlow and so many others think is the best plan they’ve seen. We’re going to lower taxes substantially for the middle class. The middle class has been forgotten in our country. It really helped and really probably was the predominant factor in making our country into a country that we all love so much and we’re all so proud of, but we’ve forgotten the middle class. So we’re going to lower taxes.
We’re lowering taxes on business. You look at all the companies that are moving out. When you see Pfizer moving to Ireland and you see so many other companies, constantly now they’re leaving. They used to move from New York to Florida, or they’d move from New Jersey to someplace else, Chris. But now they’re moving from here —  — not that many people are leaving New Jersey. But Chris understands the problem, fully understands. Now they’re leaving from places that they used to move to into other parts of the world. We can’t let that happen.
We’ve lost our manufacturing jobs. We’ve lost our manufacturing. Millions and millions of jobs, thousands and thousands and thousands of plants, manufacturing plants, warehouses. I mean, we are losing so much. We can’t let it happen.
I tell the story often about a friend of mine who is in the excavation business and he always orders Caterpillar. And recently, he ordered Komatsu tractors from Japan because they’ve cut the yen. They’ve devalued the yen to such an extent that it was virtually impossible for Caterpillar to compete. And I don’t want that to happen. That’s not going to happen. They shouldn’t be allowed to do it.
We have tremendous power over everybody because we are really the source. We have great, great power. The problem is we have politicians who truly, truly, truly don’t know what they’re doing. So we’re going to work very, very hard.
I’m so honored by this evening. If you would’ve told me on June 16th, when I was with my wife, Melania, and we came down the escalator in Trump Tower and it looked, literally, well, a little bit like this. You have a lot of cameras here tonight.
It looked, literally, like the Academy Awards. I never saw so many cameras in my life. And it takes courage to run. I’ll tell you what, it takes a lot of courage to run for president. I’ve never done this before. I’ve been a job-producer. I’ve done a lot of things but this is something I’ve never done, but I felt we had to do it. When you look at the incompetence of the Iran deal, where we give $150 billion, we get absolutely nothing. When you look at all of the problems our country has and you look at our military, which is really being depleted rapidly, depleted. We’re going to make our military bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and nobody, nobody, nobody is going to mess with us, folks, nobody.
So it’s just an amazing honor to have you with me tonight. And if you want, press, I think we told you before we’d be okay if you want to ask a few questions.
Yes, go ahead.
Well, they can always do that and then they’ll — then they’ll just lose everything and that would be the — that would be the work of a loser.
But let me just explain something. If you’ve seen what’s happened, whether you go to South Carolina, where I had a huge victory, where we had a tremendous victory in New Hampshire, tremendous in Nevada, you look at what’s happened, and tonight, of course, is the best of all. I mean, right now, they’re projected I guess six, but we could be seven, eight, nine, and major states. It’s Georgia, Alabama, Massachusetts — (CHEERS) — Tennessee, Virginia. And you know, these are amazing states and we’re going to probably get a lot more. In fact, we’re projected to have some pretty good additional numbers.
But I will say this. Look, we have expanded the Republican Party. When you look at what’s happened in South Carolina and you see the kind of numbers that we got, in terms of extra people coming in. They came from the Democratic Party, or the Democrat Party, and they’re Democrats and they’re long-time Democrats and they were never going to switch and they all switched. And they were independents. And we’ve actually expanded the party. Look at the number of votes we had in that area, as an example. Four years ago, they had 390,000 or so votes. We doubled it. We were almost 800,000. Whereas the Democrats went down. There’s much less enthusiasm for the Democrats.
So I — look, I’m a unifier. I know people are going to find that a little bit hard to believe, but believe me, I am a unifier. Once we get all of this finished, I’m going to go after one person, that’s Hillary Clinton, on the assumption she’s allowed to run, which is a big assumption. I don’t know that she’s going to be allowed to run. And I think that’s, frankly, going to be an easy race. You see the polls. I beat Hillary in many polls. I know one thing. I don’t think Marco is going to be able to beat her. I don’t think — in all fairness, I think Ted’s going to have a very hard time. But Ted at least has a shot because at least he’s won a little bit.
So I just tell you this. We are going to be a much finer party, a much — we’re going to be a unified party, I mean, to be honest with you. And we are going to be a much bigger party, and you can see that happening. We’re going to be a much bigger party. Our party is expanding. And all you have to do it take a look at the primary states where I’ve won and just look — we’ve gone from X number to a much larger number. That hasn’t happened to the Republican Party in many, many decades. So I think we’re going to be more inclusive. I think we’re going to be more unified and I think we’re going to be a much bigger party, and I think we’re going to win in November. OK, yeah?
I’m just doing what’s right. Look, Planned Parenthood has done very good work for some — for many, many — for millions of women. And I’ll say it and I know a lot of the so-called conservatives, they say that’s really — because I’m a conservative, but I’m a common-sense conservative. But millions of women have been helped by Planned Parenthood. But we’re not going to allow and we’re not going to fund as long as you have the abortion going on at Planned Parenthood, and we understand that and I’ve said it loud and clear. But — and we’ll see what happens. But Planned Parenthood — millions of people — and I’ve had thousands of letters from women that have been helped. And this wasn’t a setup. This was people writing letters. I’m going to be really good for women. I’m going to be good for women’s health issues. It’s very important to me, very important to me.
 And maybe that’s not a perfect conservative view, but I can tell you one thing. I’m more conservative than anybody on the military, on taking care of our vets, on the border, on the wall, on getting rid of Obamacare and coming up with something much, much better, and certainly, getting rid of common core and bringing education to a local level so that you’re going to have good education for our children who are being absolutely starved for proper education.
So Sarah, I mean, you know, you can call it what you want, but I am a truth-teller and I will tell the truth, OK?
Yeah, go ahead, finish it.
I feel awfully good. I mean, I’m watching your people — I’m watching your people on — and I’m going to be very nice, I’m going to be very nice — I’m watching your people on CNN and I’m watching the Fox people and I’m watching the MSNBC people, too, OK? See? I’m becoming diplomatic.  And they are certainly being very nice to me tonight. I mean, you know, they’re being very strong. And they are, they’re declaring Marco Rubio the big loser of the night, which is true. He didn’t win anything. He hasn’t won anything, period.
And by the way, and I have to tell you — and he was very, very nasty. I’ve never heard a person get up and speak on an evening like this and be so nasty, but he’s got a right to be nasty. He hasn’t won anything and he’s not going to win very much.
But I do congratulate Ted because I know how hard Ted worked on Texas and it’s a big get. Now I also did very well in Texas. I came in second. And one of the things my son, Eric, told me, which I didn’t even realize, is that not only did I win most of the states — and some are coming in and I’m expected to win them — but I came in second — I came in no worse than second. So it wasn’t like I won and then I disappeared. The worst I had was a second. So I’m very, very honored by the turnout, OK?
Yes, go ahead.
Right. Oh, they’re totally wrong. Look, I disavowed. I disavowed when I — in fact, Chris is my number one — Chris gave me the honor of joining the campaign. He called me. He said, "Donald, what you’ve got is a movement." We spoke today in Kentucky. You’ve never seen a crowd like that. That had to be 20,000 people inside this massive convention center and it was incredible. And every place we’re speaking, if we have 10,000 people it’s like a small group. We had 35,000 people the other day in Alabama. And when Chris called, he said this is a movement; this is something like I’ve never seen. And in all fairness to the press, a lot of the press have said the same thing. They’ve never seen what’s happening right now. They’ve never seen anything like it. And I’m just honored by it.
Now, when Chris joined, we had a news conference and they asked me the exact same question. I said I disavow. Now, right after the program that we’re talking about — and I thought it was clear, but you know, we’re talking about groups, groups, groups. I do have to know the name of the group because, who knows? I mean, they have to give me the name of the group. But right after, when I reviewed it, I put out a tweet and I put out on Facebook that I totally disavow. Now everybody knew I did that but the press refused to look at that. It was right after. And I disavowed then; I disavowed today on ABC with George Stephanopoulos, I disavowed again. I mean, how many times are you supposed to disavow? But I disavow and hopefully it’s the final time I have to do it. But if you look at Facebook and if you look at Twitter, right after the show I put out a statement because I want everybody to be sure.
Yes, go ahead.
No, it’s not, but there is always going to be some negotiation, and it’s going to be a good negotiation, not a bad negotiation. It’s going to be a negotiation where we’ll start at certain levels and hopefully I will make a great deal, and lots of great deals, for the American people.
So you know, look, you can’t go around just signing our little notices that the president signs all the time, executive orders, he’s done executive order, executive order. It’s almost like, I don’t even know. Does he ever go a deal with Congress anymore? Does he ever speak to the Senate? Does he ever speak with congressmen and get them into a room and get things done?
You know, a good example of this, in all fairness, is something that I — is very, very important to me; corporate inversion. Carl Icahn, who’s a friend of mine who endorsed me, great businessman, he — it bothers him so much he calls me about it all the time, where we’re losing companies. And we’re losing for two reasons. We’re losing for a lot of reasons but the taxes are too high. We have the highest — we’re the highest taxed nation in the world.
And very importantly, they have trillions, for companies, trillions of dollars outside of this country. The Democrats agree it should be brought back in. The Republicans agree it should be brought back in. Everybody agrees it should be brought back in. I could sit in a room — or the Oval Office — for a period of, literally, a half hour and I really believe I could get everybody — every single — you know, it’s one thing they don’t agree on health care or they don’t agree on common core or they don’t agree on other things and they’ll fight. Here’s something every single — I mean, almost everybody agrees. These trillions and trillions of dollars should be brought into the country.
The president can’t make a deal. The reason is he doesn’t know how to make a deal, probably doesn’t work at it, probably doesn’t care, but you’re talking about tremendous number of — tremendous amounts of money. So when you have something that everybody wants and you can’t make a deal, there’s something going on that’s really wrong. And what it means is you have the wrong leader.
Yes?
Well, look, everything — we are going to have a wall. I can tell you we are going to have a wall. I watched the ex-president of Mexico, the arrogance of this man. And I get along great with Hispanics. You saw in Nevada, I won in the poll, the Hispanic vote. I have thousands of people that work for me right now that are Hispanic. I’ve had thousands and thousands over my lifetime. These are great people. The Mexican leaders are too smart for our leaders and you saw it. Vincente Fox, first of all, he used a word that you should never have — if I ever used that word you folks would’ve never, ever, ever let me get away with it. Nobody even talked about the word he used and this is the ultimate word. But he was angry at the concept of somebody saying that they were going to pay for the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion a year — $58 billion. The wall is going to cost $10 billion. It’s so easy. I’ve had these guys that I’m on the stage with go you don’t really mean Mexico is going to pay for the wall. One — as sure as you’re standing there, 100 percent, Mexico’s going to pay, 100 percent.
And the reason is I’m a businessman. I know how to do this. Politicians are all talk, no action. It’s not going to — except for Chris Christie, of course.  It’s not — look, it’s not going to happen. It’s not going to happen with these people.
So when you think of it — and then they say you’ll never be able to build a wall. Well, it’s 2,000 miles but we really need 1,000 miles. The Great Wall of China, built 2,000 years ago, is 13,000 miles, folks, and they didn’t have Caterpillar tractors, because I only want to use Caterpillar, if you want to know the truth, or John Deere. I buy a lot of equipment from John Deere. I love John Deere, too. But they didn’t have tractors. They didn’t have cranes. They didn’t have excavation equipment. The wall is 13,000 miles long. We need 1,000 miles and we have all of the materials. We can do that so beautifully. And this is going to be a serious wall. This is going to be high wall. This is going to be a very serious wall.
We’re going to stop drugs from coming into New Hampshire. You know, when I won New Hampshire, those people were so incredible to me. And when you go, you wouldn’t believe it because it’s so bucolic, so beautiful. You look at the fields and you look at everything, it’s so beautiful. And yet, you go to a meeting in New Hampshire, their number one problem, their number one problem is heroine. The heroine is pouring in and they have so many of their young people and other people addicted. And I told them I’m going to stop it. I’m going to stop it. We’re going to have a strong border, and I mean strong.
And by the way, speaking of people, people are going to come in and they’re going to come into this country, but they’re going to come in legally, OK?
I’ve got to find out what’s going on. We’ve got a big problem. We have a big, big problem. I’ll tell it like it is. We have a big, big problem. We’ve got to figure it out. We’re going to figure it out. Radical Islamic terrorism, big, big problem, not only for us. You take a look at Germany, you take a look at Sweden, you take a look at Brussels. You look at some of these places, it’s like a disaster. And we’re not going to allow people to come into our country who we have no idea who they are, we have no idea where they come from, they have no paperwork, they’re young and they’re strong. You look at that migration line; they’re young, they’re strong, they’re powerful. And you say why aren’t they back fighting for their country?
Now, with all of that being said, I feel strongly — I have a bigger heart than anybody. We’re going to build a safe zone. It’s going to be in Syria. And I’m going to get the Gulf states, who have more money than anybody — we’ve got to loosen up their wallets a little bit. We’re going to get — but they’re not accepting people. We’re going to get — wait, wait, wait. We’re going to get the Gulf states to pay for it because they should.
Oh, we’re going to bring them back. We’re going to bring them back. Look, I’m telling you — you know how I’m going to bring them back? First of all, we’re going to do great with the African- Americans, and you see that in the polls where I had in one poll where I’m 25 percent. And one of the commentators, who I think is standing right at the back of the room in the corner, said, you know, if Donald Trump gets 25 percent of the African-American vote, this election is over. You watch. And the reason I’m getting that — and I’m going to do great with the Hispanics. I’m going to do great with virtually every group. The reason is I’m going to bring jobs back. I’m going to get Apple to start making their computers and their iPhones on our land, not in China. How does it help us when they make it in China?
Well, look, I always liked Marco until about a week ago when he decided to go hostile. He decided to become Don Rickles, OK? But Don Rickles has a lot more talent. Honestly, I did, I always liked him but he became — you know, somebody told him you’re losing very badly. The only way you can possibly win, take the hail Mary, they called it a hail Mary, the folks in the back, and go hostile. It’s hurt him. In fact, one of the newscasts tonight said he went down 15 or 20 percent. It’s really hurt him.
But look, I’m not going to tell him what to do. I’m not going to tell anybody what to do. You have to run. He had a bad night, according to CNN, Fox. I watched their broadcasts. They say the loser of the night was Marco Rubio and it’s true. He didn’t win anything. He hasn’t won. I mean, at least you can say that Ted has won something, and you know, Marco has not won. You’ve got to be able to win. You can’t talk. You know, these politicians, all talk, no action. You’ve got to be able to win something. He hasn’t won anything. And he actually hasn’t come very close. So we’ll see what happens.
Yes, go ahead.
I’m going to be a good president for the world but we have a country that’s in big trouble. Our infrastructure is going to hell, our roads, our highways, our schools, our hospitals, our airports. I go throughout the world. I mean, you go to Qatar, you go to — some people say Qatar, but you go to Qatar, you go to any of — so many places. You go to different places in China, different places in Asia, different places in the Middle East, you look at some of the airports they have. You look at the roadways they have. You look at the transportation systems they have and the trains they have. We’re like a third world country.
So I am going to be very good for the world. I’m going to get along with the world. You’re going to be very proud of me. Even you will be very proud of me as a president. But we have to rebuild our country. Our country is going to hell and people don’t understand that.
And Hillary Clinton doesn’t have a clue. She can’t do that. She’s talking about — I mean, one of the things that has really bothered me, I think one of the reasons I have such great support, is that people, you take a look, people in the middle-income groups are making less money today — less money than they made 12 years ago. And in her speech, she just said they’re making less money. Well, she’s been there with Obama for a long period of time. Why hasn’t she done anything about it? Practically everything that she was complaining about — she’s picked up what I say. The difference is she’s been there for a long period of time. Why haven’t they done anything about it?
Then you look at her record as secretary of State. It’s abysmal. You look at what’s going on with Syria. You look at what’s going on with everything. It’s a disaster.
So we’re going to have an interesting period of time. I don’t know that she’s going to be allowed to run. What she did is a criminal act. If she’s allowed to run I would be very, very surprised. But if she’s allowed to run, honestly, it’ll be a sad day for this country because what she did was wrong. And what she did — (CHEERS) — let me just tell you, what she did was wrong and other people have done far less than her and they paid a very, very big price.
OK, one or two more questions. Yeah, go ahead, Jeremy
At this moment, absolutely not, no. We either have a country or we don’t. We have a country, or we don’t. We have borders or we don’t have borders. And at this moment, the answer is absolutely not.
Well, look, I don’t expect — I have a lot of respect for Reince and for the group and I like the RNC and I don’t know that I’ve been treated fairly or not. I really don’t know. I can’t tell you that. But I can tell you that I do respect them.
What I really have is a great number of people. I have millions and millions of people. And when I was watching this broadcast just a little while ago, before I came in here because I wanted to see exactly where we were before I started speaking, I was amazed at the kind of numbers. The Republicans have tremendous energy. The Democrats don’t. They don’t have any energy. Their numbers are down. Our number are through the roof. And people are making the statements they’ve never seen, in modern times, a party that was so energized.
I think if somebody is doing as well as I’m doing — and I’m not just speaking for myself, whether it be me or anybody else — but if I’m going to win five — I’ve already won five, but maybe it could be six, seven, eight, nine. It could be nine, could win nine states tonight. If I’m going to win all of these states with tremendous numbers, and if I’m going to come in the worst is second in the two or three that I might not win, I think, you know, we’re a democracy. I think it’s awfully hard to say that’s not the person we want to lead the party, right? You know, it’s very hard.
But I really think that — I think it’s a great question, David, because I really think that one of the biggest things that everybody is seeing happening, and everybody, is the Republican Party has become more dynamic. It’s become more diverse. We’re taking from the Democrats. We’re taking from the independents. We have a lot more people. We have a lot more people. I mean, take a look at South Carolina. Look at the numbers. Look at the numbers from four years ago when nobody even wanted to waste their time and vote. And then you look at — I was there and you had lines that went a mile long. And it was virtually more than doubled.
So we have a very, very dynamic party and I think we’re going to be able to unify the party. I hope to be able to get along with everybody. I don’t know Paul Ryan well but I hope to be able to get along with him. I do know Mitch McConnell a little bit but I hope to be able to get along with him. But remember this. I have millions and millions and millions of people. This isn’t like it’s a close match. I mean, it’s only too bad that winner didn’t take all, because if winner took all, this thing is over. We’re just having a celebration.
You know, we’re having a celebration.
So anyway, I would like to — look, I just want to end by thanking everybody. This has been an amazing period in my life. My wife just called and Ivanka, as you know, is going to be having a baby very soon and she’s a special person and it’s going to be great and we look forward to that. She’s back in New York. She wanted to be here. They all wanted to be here but they’re with Ivanka now and that could be, certainly, within the next week. But this this has been an amazing period of time. It’s been amazing for me, even from an educational standpoint. And I think, honestly, we’ve done something that almost nobody thought could be done and I’m very proud of it.
And I just want to leave you with this. I am a unifier. I would love to see the Republican Party and everybody get together and unify. And when we unify, there’s nobody, nobody that’s going to beat us.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
This is so — so incredible. —
 We — we have had, no matter where we go — you know, it’s a movement, folks. This is a movement.
No matter where we go, it’s amazing. We go to Dallas. We go to Oklahoma. We go all over. We went to, the other night, Iowa — packed. Every place — New Hampshire, packed. Every place we go to, it’s like this. It’s amazing. And just great, great people.
And they actually had to tell over 3,000 people, "go home." We’ll come back. We’ll do another one. But they had to go home. Would you like to leave and we’ll let them come in? No?
I don’t think so, but we — they turned away a lot of people, which is too bad, actually. So maybe next time. I don’t know. I think this is the largest room. I know it’s a record for the room.
You know, it has to be a record because every inch of the room is taken with people, and they’re standing. They’re not sitting. So that’s great. I love — we love setting records. We want the country to set records, right?
So, you know, I — I do this, and I love to do it. And I talk about our success because that’s ultimately what it’s all about. I think we’re going to do fantastically well in Iowa. I really think we’re going to do great there. And I could say, "Oh, gee, if we came in the top four of five." I’m not — I’m looking to win everything. We want to run the table. We want to run it, because that sends a signal.
And, you know, we’ve been a little bit — we had to respond to Hillary. She came out with that — she came out — remember, she wrote — she said, "He’s got a — he’s demonstrated a penchant" — I demonstrated — "a penchant for sexism." Can you believe it? Me? Nobody respects women more than Donald Trump. That I can tell you.
And, you know, when she said that, I had no choice, because I didn’t start it. I had no choice. And I did have to mention her husband’s situation. OK?
(Laughter)
And that is now the biggest story on television by a factor of 10. So, we have to do it. You can’t let people push you around. You can’t let people tell lies. You can’t do it.
 You know, it’s interesting. One of the polls came out from CNBC and they said that if it’s Trump against Hillary in the election, it will be the greatest voter turnout in the history of this country. I can see that. I can see it.
And they said all of these people that are going to come in new, that never vote — they never vote, they don’t care — they’re going to mostly — I’ll tell you what, they’re going to vote for Trump. That’s why they’re coming in, because they’re so fed up with the system — this corrupt, horrible system. They’re fed up with it and they’re fed up with those guys back there, the media.
TRUMP: They are the worst.
No, no, no. They’re fed up. They’re fed up with the media. I mean, I’ve got — and you know, not all bad, but there’s so much dishonesty in the media. And I like to call it out. And one of the things that’s really been amazing to me, and such — it’s been so beautiful to watch — the level of genius in the public. They get it, you know? They really get it. They want to marginalize us, they want to do all of this and they want to make everybody look like, "Oh, gee."
The level of genius — they fully understand. They know they’re crooked, they know they’re dishonest and they really — otherwise, who gets worse publicity than me?
(Laughter)
And yet, I see a poll at 42 percent. And you know, you’re talking about 15, 16 people, started with 17. How are you? Started with 17 people. And you know, I’d be happy with 42 if we had three, OK? Not thrilled, I’d like to be that — over that 50 mark, but I think we’re doing really well.
And you know, it’s interesting, but the debates — OK. So the debates — thank — I love you too, darling.
(Laughter)
I love you. I do. I love you. I love every — you know what? The rooms, no matter where, whether it’s stadiums or big ballrooms like this one, it’s amazing, and there’s love in the room. And I told — the other night, I said and a friend of mine, very, very successful guy who I would love to have negotiating against China. That’s what we need, not these hacks that we have.
No, no. I have guys ...
Carl Icahn endorsed me. Great business man. We have — I have great, great business people that want to be involved. And we’re going to use — we have the best. We have the best in the world. We don’t use them. We use political hacks, we use special interest people that really don’t care about the country, they care about their deals.
This is going to change so fast. You know, last year, $500 billion trade deficit with China. Think about it. You know what $500 billion is? You do — you do $100 bills, you would fill the room to the ceiling, $500 billion deficit — trade deficit with China. What are we? Are we — yes, I guess the answer is certainly let’s not blame us.
Our leaders are stupid and — and/or — you have to say and/or they have deals, because what’s happened is all of this money is being given to them by special interests, by all of these people, including lobbyists, and these lobbyists make our leaders do — our leaders, can you believe our leaders? This is what — but they make the leaders of our country do things that they don’t even want to do because they’ve given them tens and tens and tens of millions of dollars.
I look at this guy Jeb Bush. He spent $59 million on his campaign and he is down in the grave. He is nowhere. No, no. Think of it. It’s got to be much more than that. It was actually $59 million a while ago. Every time I turn on an add, I see an ad about Trump. I mean, it’s not that bad an ad either. It’s like — you know.
If you’re going to do an ad, do an ad. But he’s a low-energy person. Let’s face it. We don’t need low-energy. We need lots of energy.
But he spent — think of it. Think of it. He spent $59 million. I spent nothing, right? Nothing.
Now, I’m going to be spending. You probably saw I’m going to spend — now, we’re going to start spending a lot of money because I don’t want to take any chances. You know, it’s — I love getting up — and for the last couple of months, I have been leading from practically the time I announced, right? And for the last — and leading a lot. I’m going to go over that because I go over (ph) polls. I love polls. I love polls.
Now, when they — if they turn negative, I don’t like them.
And I promise, if they turn negative, I’m not going to be talking about them. In fact, I get criticized all the time. You’re always talking about your polls. One of these guys just got two. He’s at two. I’m at 42. And one of these guys who’s at two said, "He always talks about his polls and I don’t." I wouldn’t either if I had two, I swear I wouldn’t.
I wouldn’t. I wouldn’t do it at all. But you know, I love to tell the story where I have spent nothing and Bush has spent $59 million, but much higher than that. That’s just — you know, because I see since then — I mean, just — you can’t turn on this television without these commercials. And Fox — every two minutes it’s a commercial on Trump.
You know what he did? It’s false advertising. So I killed him in the debate. According to Reuters, according to everybody, Drudge, who’s an amazing guy, by the way. If you don’t know Drudge — Matt Drudge. Right? He’s a great guy. But Drudge, 46 percent. At 46 percent, you have 15 people. Now, if you noticed a couple have dropped out. A couple or more.
But 15, 16 people — 46 percent. Time magazine, 49 percent. Think of it. Slate, 51 percent. U.S. News and World Report — 69 percent said I won the debate. I wont the debate, right?
PBS, Public Broadcasting System — 69 percent said Trump won.
No, you know, it is amazing. We have Washington Times at 62 percent. CBS, 59 percent. Fox, 62 percent — Fox Las Vegas, 62 percent. So, they all say — then they go back home, after the debate. I like to see how did I do? Did I look good? Looking good is very important, right? Sometimes, it is not as much like what you say, it’s how did you look?
Oh, I looked good, didn’t sound too good, but that is OK. You wonder if that is a good trait. But I go home, and I watch, and the pundits will say — and they can’t totally kill me, because we know it is happening, we know what’s happening — well, Mr. Trump was OK tonight. He was — I won every single online poll, I won.
And then, here’s Bush. So, Bush does an ad. And he takes me — and he was talking about, you know, something, and manage — and then I killed him. I mean, he — by the way, I met 69 percent, he is at 1 percent, he got. He came in last.
He takes the ad — and I shouldn’t even talk about him. He’s down to two or three — I — but it bothers me when I see a guy spending, you know, $60 million on ads against me, a lot of it, right? I say, why is he doing this? Doesn’t he have something better, he should go home.
Just relax. You know, honestly, he should go home and relax. He shouldn’t be wasting his time. But it does. I say, why is this guy spending all this money? Now he is spending it actually against a couple of other guys, they were also very weak and somewhere — but here is my ad. So, he made a statement, and after that, his spin people said, oh, he was great. He took on Trump, he took on Trump. I’m standing here, he’s over here. Took on Trump, he made a statement that was written by his pollster. You know? So, he would remember (ph) it.
He said, "Mr. Trump, why don’t you this?" I said, OK. Then I gave him an answer. I said, "Jeb, I’m at 42, you are at 2. Right? It is a simple answer. You started off here, right next to me, and then you were there, then you were there, by the next time, you are going to be off the stage. Right?
No, no, it’s true. And then — and then — and that was it. And so I responded. So, he asked me a question, question was fine. You know, professionally written. So, he asked me a question, good. I give him an answer, I blow him away. Right. Everyone says Trump won the debate. Everybody. And hat is it. So, the ad is him asking the question and I’m standing there like this, because I haven’t — in fact, you see in one of them, I’m just about ready to open my mouth.
But he doesn’t let me respond. That is almost false advertising, isn’t it? You know? So, I mentioned it, Hillary is a disaster. I mean, Hillary.
Hillary is controlled by her money. So is Jeb. So is — by the way, I’m the only one self-funding my campaign. I’m self-funding.
You know, one of the things that makes me happy. I heard one of my commentators this morning, said, "you know, I’ve been watching this stuff for 50 years and I’ve never seen anything like what has happened with Trump. One of them actually said — one of them — I’m special. You’re special. I like you. I’m special.
Isn’t that nice? That’s a very — every once in a while, somebody can say something that hits you. Where are you? Who said that? Wow. So nice. Thank you. That is a nice one. That’s like, you know, very once in a while, there is a statement that is either nice or brutal. I think low-energy was a brutal statement, right?
Low-energy can be applied to Hillary. I just don’t like to use the same thing twice on one of my enemies. Right? Because I consider them enemies. We view this as war. Don’t we view this as war? It’s war.
It’s war. And so, you don’t like to use it. I hate to give it up. What?
 How are you going to help my little girl (ph), daughter?  Oh, we are going to help your daughter. We are going to help the country, that’s called helping the daughter. We are going to help your country. So, here is the story. So, we are in a situation where we have incompetent leadership, where our trade deals are killing us, our military is not prepared. General Odierno when he left, just recently, he said that we are less prepared than at any time that he can remember. And I think he went back tot he beginning, but let’s say second World War. OK? That’s enough.
And we should be very prepared now, because the world hates us. She has done a terrible job as secretary of State. Think of it. Putin comes out, he said, Donald Trump is brilliant, he is doing an amazing job, and he is leading the pack. OK, that’s nice.
 And she and my opponents — oh, isn’t it terrible that Putin said — wouldn’t it be nice if we could get along with the world? Wouldn’t it be? Seriously. No, no, wouldn’t it be nice?
I mean, they want me to refute his statement. How dare you say I’m brilliant? How dare — that’s — who’s going to do that? And by the way, if he said it about anyone of them, they would have been very happy.
But the point is, we have to get along. The world has blown up around Barack Obama.
Now, I don’t know if you saw his recent release. They were talking about the Department of State, State Department, and they said very strongly, you know, the things that they’ve done. Well, they couldn’t find it because what have they done that’s good? And they said bringing peace to Syria. Did you see that?
So instead of saying they made a mistake — call it a typo, they made a mistake — they’re trying to justify it. Well, we meant we’re working on it. Can you believe — bringing peace to Syria. The world is blowing up, the migration in Syria — they say one of their achievements for the year is bringing peace to Syria, and the whole world’s talking about it. It’s — the level of stupidity is incredible. I’m telling you. I used to use the word incompetent, now I just call them stupid.
I went to an Ivy League school, I’m very highly educated. I know words, I had the best words. I have — but there’s no better word than stupid.
Right? There is none. There is none.
There’s no — there’s no — there’s no word like that. So we are going to turn things around. But — and if we have Hillary — I’ve got to tell you. I just saw where for the last week she’s been hitting me really hard with the women card, OK? Really hard. And I had to say OK, that’s enough, that’s enough. And we did a strong number. She’s not going to win. Any by the way, I love the concept — I love, love, love having a woman president. Can’t be her. She’s horrible. She’s horrible.
 And you know really don’t — I’ll tell you who does not like — yeah, we’ll get Ivanka. Good. Let’s do Ivanka.
But I’ll tell you who doesn’t like Hillary are women. Women don’t like Hillary.
I see it all the time. And always so theatrical; Mr. Trump said this and that and this. And you just — I actually — I shouldn’t do it. I just have to turn off the television so many times. She just gives me a headache.
But you know — although I think last night I gave her a big headache.
I can imagine — I can imagine those discussions. But you have to hit back hard, and you can’t let them push you around. And today, she gave a speech and she never even mentioned my name. You know, in the debate I was mentioned nine times, I mean everything. All of them. But her. I was mentioned nine times, none of the other candidates were mentioned. And then she came out with the sexism, which is so nonsense. And — but she’s playing that card. And then I had to hit her back, so I hit her back and I talked about her husband and the abuse of women and the tremendous abuse — no, it’s tremendous abuse.
I mean, you look at it, it’s tremendous abuse. And I talked about that. And now today, the television is going crazy, and she gets up, makes a speech and doesn’t even mention anything about me with sexism or anything else. I wonder why — I wonder why.
And remember this; it’s really important. A poll just came out where we’re tied, another one came out a couple of weeks ago, Fox, where I’m leading by four or five points against her individually. We’re doing great. I haven’t even focused on her yet.
Look at the people I’ve focused on. I don’t want to really knock them, I don’t want to mention their names. But, you know, of those people that are all gone, they were all people that attacked me. Wouldn’t it be nice if our country could have that same thing? You attack and they’re, boom, gone. And if we could do it verbally —
— you know, if we could do it verbally that’s even better, right? You know, who wants to use our military? By the way, we are going to build the strongest, the best, the most powerful military ever. Ever. Ever.
And we’re going to take care of our vets, we’re going to take care of our vets —
 And it will cost you much less money, and it will be great. I mean, you are signing in programs, things that you will never, ever use, You know that. And you are paying for it. And you will never ever use them. So we will get that straightened out. We are going to straighten a lot of things. We are going to straighten out Common Core. Common Core is dead. It’s going to be dead.
 When I look at parents and I see local parents in Iowa and New Hampshire and South Carolina, I went to a school and I saw the parents, they love their children. They want that — they want education. They love — they don’t care about money, they don’t care about anything. They love their children and it’s local.
And they get together and they do wonderful programs. They are smart people as opposed to getting it done by bureaucrats that are getting big, fat checks in Washington. I mean, we have such talent in this country and we don’t use it. So, Obamacare, dead. Common core, gone. We are going to get rid of it. Department of Education, we are going to get rid of it.
 We are bringing education to a local level. One thing on education. So, in the world, we are ranked number 28. There are third world countries that are ranked better than us in education and many other things. And yet, per pupil, we are number 1, by far — there is nobody close. Number two isn’t even close.
So we spend more money for pupil than any country in the world and we are ranked number 28 which is way down at the bottom, essentially. I mean, it’s — can you imagine we are ranked number 28 and we are number 1? And that’s what I do like saying about my campaign, I spent less money than anybody else and I have the best results.
I’m number one by a lot and I spent no money. I mean, my plane cost me some money, but I spent no ads. Took a little radio ad in Iowa. But I didn’t do that — I took — I think the station is so lovely if you want to know the truth. But I spent essentially no money.
And then you have all these other guys spending vast — and they like the way the United States is run. Now, why would we put a guy like Jeb, like some of the others. It’s not only Jeb Bush. They spend money. I see Rubio on the ads all day long.
You know, the black background. He’s got like a black thing. He should have put something like that behind him, right? Right there, the flag.
 No, no. And I like him. I think he is a nice guy. But I see these ads with the backdrop and it is just somber. It’s not — I don’t think it’s good. So, think of it. I spent no money and I’m number one. Others spent — they will have spent hundreds of millions of dollars and they are not even in the race. That’s what we need for our country. What? OK. I’ve got 15,000, I don’t know what the hell he means by that but that’s OK. So, but I think he’s a fan. I don’t think he’s a — are you a protester? No. OK. No body likes Trump. OK. He’s not a protester. I love you.
 You know, the only time — don’t worry about it. The only time the cameras focus on the crowd is when we have a protester. Cause I always have — like, look at this room, packed. I always have the biggest crowds.
And I go home and my wife said were there many people? I watched you on television tonight. I said, I had 20,000 people. She said, they didn’t show it. They have it right on your face. So I have 20,000 people. I have 20,000 in Oklahoma, 35,000 in Mobile, Alabama. Nobody knows. Because those cameras stay right in your face and I think they can’t move.
You know, I think they might be fixed because modern cameras maybe — except every time there is a guy that stands up protesting, you know, they are on drugs or something, cause some of those guys, it’s like. They don’t even know what the hell they are doing there, all the sudden, the cameras swerve and make perfect shots.
And I like it because then it shows how big the crowds are. So, you know. Some time I think I’m going to put in some false protesters. I’ll put in some friendly protesters. It’s the only way I’m going to be able to get the crowd in.
So when we started, I talked about trade. I talked about the border. I talked about a lot of things. And I started on June 16th and — in Trump Tower, the famous escalator ride. And it takes guts to run for president. I’ll tell you, you know, it’s like, I’ve never did this before.
And, you know, then they tell you on a debate we had the largest debate. We have the largest audience in the history of cable television. Then CNN a couple of weeks later had 23 million. Fox had 24 million. CNN had 23 million — the largest audience in the history of CNN.
Now, they’re there — the cameras are on live right now. I mean, you know. So, the largest audience in the history of (inaudible).
Now, the debates used to be, if you go back four years or eight years, you know, whenever the cycles came up, nobody even wanted — they didn’t want the debates. I think they were forced to take them for licensing. Nobody wanted the debates. They drew nothing, but now they’re drawing 24 million. Now they want to have more debates — "Oh, can we have more? Can we have more?" Can they go three hours?
Do you remember when they had the one go three hours? I said, no, I’m not doing three hours. It’s too long. Who wants — I could stand up here for 50 hours, but who the hell wants to sit home watching three hours of the stuff, right?
"Mr. Trump, you have 30 seconds. What would you do about ISIS?" Oh, great. And by the way, that question — I hate those questions. You know why? Because I want to be unpredictable. I don’t want to tell ISIS what I’m going to do to knock the hell out of them.
Remember, I said very strongly — (inaudible) the oil for what, four years? You’ve been watching. I mean, four years. I’ve been "get the oil, get the oil, get the oil." Because who’s going to get the oil? Iran is taking over Iraq. We made a deal for Iran, done by some of the dumbest people on earth, on our side. We gave them everything. They — we don’t even get our prisoners back.
And now Iran wants to start negotiating separately for them. Can you believe it? I go crazy. We would have gotten them back. All you had to do was say, "We want our prisoners back." They would have said no. I would have said, "I want them back; you don’t understand me. I want them back." They would have said, "No, we won’t do that." I would have said, "Bye-bye," and I would have left. Then I would have doubled up the sanctions. And I guarantee you...
... I guarantee you that within 24 hours, they would have called back and they’ll say, "You’ve got your prisoners; can we talk?"
And I would have never given them $150 billion. I would have never given them the money. I would have never give — they’re using it — they don’t have to make nuclear. They can buy it. Why are they going to make it? Then we have the nuclear, where they have self- inspections. How about the area — you know, the big area? They don’t want us there. Oh, I wonder why. They don’t want us there. So they self-inspect, OK?
Then they have the 24-day inspection, but the self-inspection is the beauty. "We think you’re making nuclear weapons here." "Well, let us go check, Mr. President, we’ll check."
"No, sir, we’re not making nuclear weapons. Nobody — no, we’re not; we would never do a thing like that."
These are people that have deceived us. They’ve lied to us. They’re a terrorist state. But — and I used to say it’s the worst deal that I’ve ever seen negotiated. And by the way, just to finish prisoners. So they’d come back; we get our prisoners. But then when I hear the other day that now this deal is done. It’s all done. And now I hear they want to negotiate to get — and what do they say? They said very strongly, they said, "We are going to want a lot for the prisoners. That’s out — we’re starting off; we’re going to want a lot."
Now, we’ve already taken off the sanctions. They’re already rich as hell. What — what’s going on there? That’s why I say, I mean, some people say it’s worst than stupidity. There’s something going on that we don’t know about. I mean, honest. And you almost think — I’m not saying that, and I’m not a conspiracy person. As you said, "We are; we’re saying it."
Half the people in this room are saying it. I’m trying to be — you know, I’m just hoping they’re just stupid people, OK?
Which they are. Or there’s something going on. Because it’s — it’s inconceivable. You know, do you ever see where some things are so bad that it can’t be — that nobody can do what they did, right? Nobody.
So, Iran now wants to negotiate separately for the (inaudible). In other words, that deal is done; now we want to start all over again. And they want a lot. "We want a lot." And I just — I want to just shoot the television, you know? Because they would have had it just by saying.
And, you know, when they asked Kerry and Obama, the deal was made. Everybody knows it’s a horrible deal. It’s going to need to — it’s going to lead to tremendous nuclear proliferation, and they’re so rich now. You know, they became — $150 billion — they became so rich. And many other things that you don’t even know about. Most people don’t even know what the agreement says.
 But I’ll tell you what, when you look at what we’re doing, we’re not going to have — if we keep going like this, folks, we’re not going to have a country left. We’re not going to have a country. We’re not going to have a country.
And we’re like a dumping ground for the world. We’re a dumping ground. They want to take these migrants — the migrants, you know, and I feel terrible about the migration, caused by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. They’re the ones that caused it. They go into Libya. They knocked the hell out of Gadhafi. OK, so Gadhafi — they backed rebels who end up killing the ambassador and the other young people.
You know the ambassador was riding in a jeep, one of our jeeps, of course, a military jeep, holding the Libyan flag and you know, freedom, freedom, freedom. And then gets killed by the same people. So, we backed people that turned out to be far worse than Gadhafi.
Look at what we did in Iraq. Look at what we did in Iraq. I mean, what the hell did we get? We spent $2 trillion, and that was as a year and a half ago. I keep saying two or three, it’s a lot more than that. We spent $2 trillion, we have thousands of deaths, and I’m not even talking other side.
You are talking about hundreds of thousands, maybe millions. You have thousands of deaths. We have wounded warriors, who I love, all of. These guys are the toughest — these are the greatest people.
 You know, these are the greatest people. And then what happens? We leave, and we have a president that announces the date of when we are leaving. So, I said, man, if I’m the enemy, I’m just going to go wait for 18 months right?
He gave a date. We are leaving Iraq, we will be gone by such and such a time. I said, I’m just sitting there watching and I’m saying, man, that’s really stupid. Because, believe me, the enemy doesn’t want to be killed. You know, you hear so much, oh they want to go with the virgins up to wherever they go, right?
They don’t. They want to live. And they want to take care of their families, always their families. You remember that, because their families know what’s going on OK? You think their wives don’t know what they are planning? You think their kids don’t know exactly what daddy is doing when daddy is going to fly into the World Trade Center? You think they don’t know? They know exactly what’s going on. Remember that. And frankly, I think they have more love for their family’s lives than they do for their own lives, OK. But they still want to live. So here is Obama, gives an exact date. He gives an exact date and so they pull back.
And everyone says, oh, we are doing so well. Look, we’re doing so well. Why should they fight when they know, in 18 months, they can go in and take the place? So what happens? So we have ISIS taking a lot of oil. I said take the oil. Remember when we left, I was opposed to going in because I said you’re going to destabilize the Middle East.
Because you had Iraq and you had Iran. And I said, they fight, they’re always fighting for decades and decades, for generations. They fight, that’s what they do. They fight. How we ever got involved in this mess is hard to believe. They fight and they were equal militarily. They go this way, 10 feet. They go this way, 10 feet. Then they rest a couple of years, then they start fighting again.
Then Saddam Hussein throws a little gas. Everyone goes crazy. Oh, it’s because (ph) of gas. They go back and forth. It’s the same. And they were stabilized. And I said, if you go after one or the other, in this case Iraq, you’re going to destabilize the Middle East. That’s what going to happen. You’re going to destabilize the Middle East. And that’s exactly what happened. We totally destabilized the Middle East.
We have now migrations ,largely because of what’s happened afterwards. You know Iraq was horrible. It was stupid to go in and we should have never gone in. But we shouldn’t have gotten out the way we went out. And we shouldn’t have given dates. I mean, I would have probably said we are going to stay forever. And they would have said, oh, man.
And then keep going, keep going and eventually they would get tired and say, this guy is crazy. I mean, he’s never going to leave and you’ll make a deal. But when you announce you are leaving in 18 months or whatever the hell he said, they just pull back. And then as soon as we left, they come in OK?
So they have the oil. You know who the biggest benefactor of the oil is right? China. Always China. I love China. I love Mexico. Their leaders are too smart for us. We have no border. We will build a wall. Mexico will pay for the wall by the way.
 We’re building a wall, we are going to have a border. And people are going to come into our country, but they are going to come in through a legal process. They’re not coming in the way they’re coming in now, just walking in like nothing.
They are going to come in, but they are going to come through a legal process. So, with Iraq, so we give them the date and they take over. We didn’t take the year. So for four years, I have been talking about it. Then because of Paris, all of sudden they start bombing the oil.
But I didn’t want to just bomb the oil. I wanted to take oil. They’re bombing. You know, we are bombing. Great. What’s going to happen after that? So we’re bombing. And, you know, we are not really bombing it, because they are still selling it.
 I said, how could they keep selling it? Obama does not want to hit them too hard because he is afraid he is going to pollute the atmosphere. No, this is serious. Now think of it. He talks about the carbon footprint and yet he will fly a very old Air Force one, an old Boeing 747, with the old engines and you know, spewing stuff.
So, he’s got a problem with the carbon footprint. You can’t use hair spray because hair spray is going to affect the ozone. I’m trying to figure out. Let’s see, I’m in my room in New York City and I want to put a little spray so that I can —
— right? Right? But I hear where they don’t want me to use hair spray, they want me to use the pump because the other one which I really like better than going bing, bing, bing —
— and then it comes out in big globs, right, and you — it’s stuck in your hair and you say oh my God, I’ve got to take a shower again. My hair’s all screwed up, right?
I want to use hair spray. They say don’t use hair spray, it’s bad for the ozone. So I’m sitting in this concealed apartment, this concealed unit — you know, I really do live in a very nice apartment, right?
But it’s sealed, it’s beautiful. I don’t think anything gets out. And I’m not supposed to be using hair spray. But think of it. So Obama’s always talking about the global warming, that global warming is our biggest and most dangerous problem, OK? No, no, think of it. I mean, even if you’re a believer in global warming, ISIS is a big problem, Russia’s a problem, China’s a problem. We’ve got a lot of problems. By the way, the maniac in North Korea is a problem. He actually has nuclear weapons, right? That’s a problem.
We’ve got a lot of problems. We’ve got a lot of problems. That’s right, we don’t win anymore. He said we want to win. We don’t win anymore. We’re going to win a lot — if I get elected, we’re going to win a lot.
We’re going to win so much — we’re going to win a lot. We’re going to win a lot. We’re going to win so much you’re all going to get sick and tired of winning. You’re going to say oh no, not again. I’m only kidding. You never get tired of winning, right? Never.
But think of it. So Obama’s talking about all of this with the global warming and the — a lot of it’s a hoax, it’s a hoax. I mean, it’s a money-making industry, OK? It’s a hoax, a lot of it. And look, I want clean air and I want clean water. That’s my global — I want clean, clean crystal water and I want clean air. And we can do that, but we don’t have to destroy our businesses, we don’t have to destroy our —
And by the way, China isn’t abiding by anything. They’re buying all of our coal; we can’t use coal anymore essentially. They’re buying our coal and they’re using it. Now when you talk about the planet, it’s so big out there — we’re here, they’re there, it’s like they’re our next door neighbor, right, in terms of the universe. Miss Universe, by the way, I made a great deal when I sold — oh did I get rich.
That was a great deal. You know, they broke my choppers on that. They said he talks about illegal immigration, we’re not going to put him on television. First of all, Univision is being sued like crazy; you wouldn’t believe it. And NBC, I made a great deal with them, just like an amazing deal, far more than I would have ever gotten — I mean, I made an unbelievable deal — far more than I ever would have gotten if I said I think I’m going to sell it if times were normal, right? Isn’t it amazing the way that stuff can work out?
But I love Miss Universe and I love the universe. But think of it. So China is spewing up all this stuff and we’re holding back. And with China — you know, we signed these agreements where we have to do it now, they have to do it within 30 or 35 years. I don’t think they’re going to be doing it.
It’s like Japan. If somebody attacks Japan, we have to immediately go and start World War III, OK? If we get attacked, Japan doesn’t have to help us. Somehow, that doesn’t sound so fair. Does that sound good?
 So South Korea — I order televisions, I order thousands of televisions a year. I order televisions because I have a lot of stuff and I like nice brand new — they’re all made in South Korea, most — other than Sony, and Sony, in all fairness, has lost its way. But a lot of them — Samsung, all of them. I mean, they’re all pretty much — all of them, right? I think just about. But I order thousands of televisions, they’re all from South Korea. So we have 28,000 people on the border separating South Korea from this maniac in North Korea, we get nothing. What do — we get nothing. They’re making a fortune. It’s an economic behemoth.
A lot of you don’t know we protect Germany. Germany! Mercedes Benz, how many people have a Mercedes Benz? We protect Germany. It’s an economic behemoth.
We protect Saudi Arabia. They were, during the good oil days — now it’s probably half, which is fine. But during the good old — they were making a billion — listen to this — a billion dollars a day, and we protect them. Our military — they pay us peanuts, like nothing. And then if we want to buy — we want to move to another location, well, that’s very expensive if we do that. We want — they charge us rent?
I mean, look. We are run by people that are so bad, they’re so out of their league — and I see it, I see it on the stage. You know, they’re — a lot of them are nice people. You know, a lot of people think I don’t like these people. I do like them. But they don’t have business sense, they don’t have business ability, they don’t have common sense. They’re politicians, they’re all talk, they’re no action.
When I say...
... folks, when I say, "We’re going to build a wall." Most of them say, "You can’t build a wall — build a wall." In China 2,000 years ago, they built the Great Wall of China, which is bigger than any wall we’re thinking about, OK? The Great Wall of China goes 18,000 miles. We have 2,000 miles of which we only need 1,000 miles, because you have a lot of natural barriers, right, that are extremely tough to get across. We have 1,000 miles.
So, China has 18,000 or 13,000 miles, and we have 1,000 miles. We have modern cranes. We have Caterpillar tractors — I want to use Caterpillar; I don’t want to use Komatsu.
Made in America.
Even my hats, they’re made in America. It wasn’t easy to find a guy that could do those hats. You know what I’m talking about. I see so many knock-offs of my hat, right? "Make America Great Again." I see these things that are out of plastic. They’re out of all sorts of crap. Mine are made in America. And honestly, they do a great job, but they don’t produce as many as I’d like because, frankly, there’s a big — I mean, it’s amazing. Those hats are amazing. But I wanted to have it made. And you know why I wanted it — I wanted it, anyway, but I also knew that as soon as the hats came out, and other things — we have a website — as soon as the hats came out, I knew the press would be calling. And it’s true. First hour when the hats were announced, I get a call from the New York Times. "Mr. Trump, where are those hats made?" I said, "America."
I knew it. I knew it. Because as you know, if I would have said China, I would have been in big, big trouble. But they’re being knocked off all over the world. I mean, I see hats — they’re like helmets. I see them all. But what are you going to do?
But here’s the story. We’ve got to build a wall. So when I talk and when I’m up on the stage with these guys, these people — wonderful people — and a very nice woman, Carly. She’s a nice woman. When I’m up on the stage with them, they think I’m crazy when I say "Mexico" — I’m saying, "We’re going to build a wall; it’s going to be a great wall; it’s going to be real wall. See this ceiling? This ceiling is peanuts compared to the height of the wall I’m talking about."
I’m talking about a van to get up there. They’re not coming down because it’s too dangerous.
All right? Did you ever see what they do now? We have these little walls. They build ramps. They build a ramp. I say, "Wouldn’t it be cheaper just to knock the wall down and just..." And then they drive over it with jeeps loaded up with drugs. Do you see this? They build ramps. There was a picture in Time magazine. It’s a ramp — a little ramp that goes over the wall. So, they have a jeep — over, down, bump, make money. We get the drugs. Think of it. We — "build a wall" is right. You’ve got to build a wall.
We get the drugs. They get the cash. No so good, right? We don’t like that deal. Our politicians don’t know — they don’t know.
So when I say "Mexico’s going to pay for it," these guys on the stage with me, they’re not business people. They don’t understand. Mexico makes a fortune off the United States. Number one, we give them a lot of money. But in addition to that, they’re taking our businesses. They’re making — you talk about a trade deficit. I’ll tell you what, Mexico in a certain way is in a mini-version the new China. Mexico is making an absolute fortune — peanuts, compared to the cost of the wall.
Let’s say the cost of the wall is $10 billion. That’s a good — I can do great job at $10 billion. I think we’ll have a lot of money left over. Somebody else would — and by the way, 20 years ago, they wanted to build a wall. People that are opposed to it now, they wanted to stop and they wanted to build a wall. You know one of the reasons they didn’t build the wall? Because of the Environmental Protection Agency, they couldn’t get an environmental impact study approved. Can you believe it? Because there was a toad or a turtle or a snake or something was in the way.
Now, think of it. In China, in the South China Sea, there were these low-level land masses that were covered by water, but pretty close to the top. China sends in massive excavators and they’re (inaudible). They’re building military fortresses in the South China Sea. And a friend of mine, who is one of the biggest and richest people in China — he’s a great guy. They’re great people. They’re fine. They’re just too smart. I mean, the leaders are too smart for our people.
They won’t be too smart when I put my people there.
When they call up, "We’d like to speak to the donor that is negotiating it." "No, no. The donor now is Carl Icahn. You’re going to speak to Carl Icahn." You know Carl — great businessman. You have so many people — they call all these business people — call. So, a friend of mine, so I call him, I say, "You’re actually doing that." And then jokingly, I said, "How long did it take to get started? Did you have to get an environmental impact study approved in order to excavate?"
He looked at me, goes, "I — I hope you’re kidding when you say that.
They conceived of the idea and they started digging four hours later, OK? There is no, you know, go through 25 years of environmental impact, you are going to hurt the snail. You’re going to hurt this. You are going to — they are doing a big thing.
They excavated — massive, massive — take a look, massive. The biggest excavation. They are ripping the hell out of that ocean. They are ripping it and they are taking their dirt and they are putting it — and they’re building air fields and they’re building forts.
We couldn’t do it because, just like I said for the law. Legitimately, they could not get an environmental impact statement. Now, that’s probably not the only reason it didn’t happen. I heard their costs were too high. With me, that’s easy.
You know, I’m doing the old post office or watch (ph) you (ph). I’m under budget, I’m ahead of schedule. Hey, look at the campaign. The guy’s at $59 million and he’s down at the bottom. I’m nothing and I’m at the top. It’s the same thing.
 I actually said — it’s funny. The other day I got this great review. They said trump is a great speaker. The crowd is spellbound. But he has one problem. And I’m reading, and I want to see. The problem is, he speaks through the Applause. In other words, like I say that, you applaud, I start talking you finish your Applause. And you know why? Because I’m so excited, because we have so much potential. It’s true.
 I don’t want to wait for your freaking Applause. We have — I have so many — we have so much potential. There are so many things to do. I don’t really sort of want to wait. I want to do it. And I just noticed, I did it again. You were getting ready to give a big Applause, because you like that, and I’m speaking. I killed the Applause. But he is right. But except, I’m not a speaker. What I am is a doer. I get things done.
 So, when the people up on the stage with me — and Hillary, Hillary doesn’t have a clue. By the way, you talk about low energy. She has lower energy than Jeb Bush, which is hard to believe. She does. And I’ll tell you and I’ve been saying it. And maybe it’s rude, maybe it is not. But it doesn’t matter. We have a much bigger problem. We have to save our country.
So, if I’m rude and if people think I’m rude — I’m actually a nice person. I have a big heart. I want to help people. I want to help the migration. I want to do a safe zone in Syria. I don’t want them coming here. We don’t know who these people are. They are undocumented.
 And we should do a safe zone over there. We should have the Gulf states — Saudi Arabia and these states they are not spending. They have got to spend. They have to pay. You know, we are protecting them. We’re doing — they wouldn’t be there for two minutes if we weren’t protecting them. They have to start paying. They are not taking anybody, OK?
How about Germany taking millions of migrants. Can you believe what she is doing to that country? And she was the person of the year and I wasn’t. Everybody said Trump was supposed to.
(BOOING)
Hey, what are you going to do. I think she has made a terrible mistake. We will find out. Time will tell. They have tremendous crime problems. I think she has made a tremendous mistake. But what I like is in Syria, with other people’s money, meaning the Gulf states and others and Germany and others.
Because, look, Germany is paying a fortune to accept all these people. They’ll give us the money. We do a massive safe zone. And then eventually when this whole catastrophe straightens out, which I will probably be able to get it straightened out, I understand this now.
But once it’s straightened out, they could go home to their country, you know, to their area. It is interesting, I have thousands of people that work for me. Thousands. And I have people that come from far — they are all here legally, don’t worry about it. I use E- verify. But I have people — oh, they go and check. These guys go check.
They went into the old post office checking everybody who walked their dog, are you hear illegally? They said they found one person out of hundreds and hundreds. I don’t believe it. But, you know, it is possible somebody slipped — hey, we do have 11 million people in the country. And it is probably a much higher number than that, OK? It is probably a much higher number.
But we have to do something about it and we are going to. So, I just want to finish by saying this. Look, we have a situation that is out of control. Our country is a dumping ground for the rest of the world. We are laughed at by the rest of the world.
And when I started this journey, and it is a journey, and I do love you people. You’re amazing people. And by the way, you are so smart. A lot of times, they will say, well Mr. Trump’s people are blue-collar. I love blue-collar. I’m honored by that.
But they are not blue-collar. We have blue-collar and we have executives and we have young people. They say the audience is old. It’s not older. The audience is young. The other night in Iowa, I told that, and I said, we have so many young people and the place erupted. They are all young people. We have an amazing thing happening, it’s just...
 Look, that’s their way of marginalizing, not even me, they are marginalizing you. It is disgusting. But when I started this journey and that’s what it is, it’s a journey and it’s a movement that’s taking place. It’s a movement. Remember the old days? Silent majority? It’s not right. It’s a noisy majority. People are angry. It’s a noisy majority. These aren’t silent people anymore. I go to people — you can’t even hear.
This is an amazing thing that’s happened. I received a call from one of the biggest reporters, who happens to be liberal, but that’s OK. (inaudible) a couple of them, right? But, a guy who’s really respected, recently, and he said, "How does it feel?" I said, "How does what feel?" He said, "What you have done has never been done in the history of politics in the United States." I mean, even CNN said, "Number one political story of the year is Trump." You know what number two was? ISIS — ISIS was two. I’d rather reverse it. Let ISIS be one; let me be two, because I want to knock the hell out of them and make me number one next year.
Make me number one next year. But this reporter, who is a great intellect, actually, and a very smart guy, very good guy. He said — he said, "What you’ve done has never been done before in the history of this country." Newt Gingrich was on a television show the other say, and said, "This is one the great phenomenons (ph) I’ve ever seen in politics; nobody’s ever seen it."
Crowds like this? Forget it. I mean, it’s only confined to this (inaudible). Again, they sent 3,000 people home. Can you believe it? More than 3,000. It’s — it’s unbelievable what’s happening. It’s beautiful what’s happening. It’s beautiful what’s happening. But Newt Gingrich said he’s never seen anything like this.
But he said to me, the reporter, he said, "never been done before." I said, "Well, you know, it’s fine, but if I don’t win, it’s just a waste of time." He goes, "No, no, no. What you’ve done is incredible." He said, "Even if you don’t win, what you’ve done is incredible; you’ve totally changed the landscape of politics."
No, don’t applaud, don’t applaud, don’t applaud. He said, "You’ve totally changed the landscape of politics; it’s forever going to be different. Your campaign — there’s never been anything like it." OK, he was very nice. I said, "You don’t understand. You don’t understand. If I don’t win, I will consider this" — and I mean this — "a total and complete waste of time." I really do.
So — because we’re not going to do anything. It’s wonderful. Oh, good, I had nice crowds. They’ll write about me every once in a while; every two years I’ll have a story, "Trump ran this rather good campaign." If we don’t win, to me, and honestly you should feel the same thing, if we don’t win, it’s a terrible waste of time, because you’ll have somebody else in there. They won’t be able to do what I do. They’re not going to be able to. And even if you get one of these Republicans in, like, I didn’t finish the — so, the wall.
When I say "Mexico is going to pay," they all laugh. They all go "heh, heh, heh." They think it’s funny. Honestly, these are people — they think it’s funny. They’re laughing. You know, lightly, like "Oh ho, that’s so funny; ha, ha, ha." They’re going to pay for the wall, folks. They’re making billions and billions and billions of dollars on deficits that we have with Mexico. The wall is peanuts. They’re going to pay for the wall.
But I mention it, now they don’t laugh because they’re starting to agree with me. And then the other day, one of the people said — it was Ted Cruz, who is a nice guy. But he said, "We’re going to build a wall at the southern border." I said, "Look" — and my wife is sitting (inaudible) — where did that come from, right? No, Ted’s a good guy.
But he said on one of — I think it was on Fox, he was being interviewed. And he said, "We’re going to build a wall at the southern border." He didn’t say Mexico was going to pay was going to pay. He hasn’t gone that far yet, but believe me that’s going to happen. See, they’re all trying to catch up with me. Because when I did this stuff, it was very out there.
Now, I’m the one that everybody wants to sort of aspire to. But what happens is — so Ted’s up and he’s talking. And, you know, routinely we’re going to have the border; we’re going to have this and that. And we’re going to build a wall.
My wife is sitting there. She says, "Darling, did you hear that? He just said they’re going to build a wall. That’s the first time I’ve — you know, that’s what you say." She hasn’t heard that from any other candidate.
OK. So we’re going to build a wall. Mexico is going to pay for it. There are so many things we’re going to do. But when I — when I started the journey, it was amazing. I came down — it took courage. I went down in to the lobby of Trump Tower, on the escalator with Melania. I have never seen — it looked like the Academy Awards, the press. We have a lot of press here today. They’re all live — look at all those live cameras.
So when I came down — when I came down on the escalator, we came down. And I said, "We’re going to do things." And I mentioned illegal immigration. You wouldn’t even be talking about illegal — it wasn’t even on the radar. Nobody was talking about illegal immigration. Is that right? Now, it’s one of the big subjects.
 And that’s why — and one of the beautiful polls that came out, and I’m so proud of it, CNN just came out with a poll a couple of, I guess a week ago — 36 percent for Trump; second is 16; third is 14; then 12. So they’re way down. But on the economy, they give me 55 — 55 percent. That’s with 16 people at the time.
On the budget, I mean, I understand — the budget, the economy, I win — I win it hands down, all right.
But listen to this. On illegal immigration, I’m almost at 50 percent.
And on ISIS, likewise, almost at 50 percent. So people want to be protected, they want to feel safe. They need strength, they need toughness, they need smarts. I don’t want to be tough — you know, I know a lot of tough guys but they’re not smart, and they’re the — they’re the easiest. You can be tough, you’ve got to be smart.
Let’s start smart first. You’ve got to be smart-tough. You’ve got to be tough because the world is trying to take advantage of us. So what happens is this. I came out, I started — I did it, I was, oh, that first couple of weeks with illegal immigration and Mexico and all of this stuff. Then Kate was killed in San Francisco and Jamiel was killed in Los Angeles. Jamiel Shaw, an unbelievable young man, was killed, just shot right through the head by an illegal immigrant. Kate was shot by a guy who came in five or six times, shot in the back.
So many great people. And that’s — these are two, so many. And then you have the economy and the jobs that are being lost and people aren’t paying taxes and all of this stuff, right? And all of a sudden, people are coming over, and I say the wall and now they’re starting to say the wall. We have to be progressive in our thinking. When I say progressive, I mean like smart. I’m not talking progressive like a Bernie Sanders would say, the guy want to tax you. Think of it.
Think of it. This guy wants to raise your taxes to 90 percent. No, no, think — you’ll have to move out of this — I love this area, by the way. I’ve been here many times. Great golfing area, right? We love it.
No more golf if Bernie Sanders — no more golf. No, no, you won’t have any golf anymore. There won’t be — you won’t have any money left to be — you’ll be paying it in taxes. This guy is a total disaster.
And I’m not saying that — I’ll tell you why. You know, Hillary said well, I’d like to run against Trump, believe me.
This poor Chuck Todd, Meet the Press. His show is dying and he keeps saying do it, do it, but I never liked it. You know, I just — he never treated me fairly. So I do his show, he gets the highest ratings he’s had in years. He went from, like — believe me, I won’t even give you the numbers, they were massive, the numbers, right? I saved his life, and then he goes Hillary Clinton said that she would most like to run against Donald Trump. And yes — and they’re looking forward to it. Trust me, the last person — she’s already gotten a dose last night, do you agree?
 She had a tough night. She had a tough one. She had a tough night looking at the beauty pageant, OK?
So Hillary Clinton said — and here’s Chuck Todd — and he’s a nice guy. I’m not trying to knock him. Please don’t be insulted, Chuck. But she says she doesn’t like him. But he doesn’t treat me right. So he goes the Clinton campaign said they’d most like to run against Trump, like I’m some kind of a sap. So I call him and I say Chuck, let me explain something. When they say they want to run against me, that means they don’t want to run against me, do you understand that? Do you understand it’s reverse psychology.
They say they want to run against me — first of all, I’m winning and tied in the polls now and I haven’t even hit her yet. But look at what happened to all the guys I hit. They’re gonzo, they’re gone or they’re failing badly, OK, and they’ll be gone soon.
But Hillary Clinton — think of it. I say so Chuck, report it like properly. Trust me, they don’t want to run against Trump. The last thing she wants in her whole life is — this was only — I did this in, like, 15 minutes what happened to them, because the husband wants to come and she wants to accuse me of things and the husband’s one of the great abusers of the world? Give me a break. Give me a break.
Give me a break. So the last person she wants to run against is me.
Now here’s the story. Look, here’s the story. It’s very simple. So I announced — and I was talking about trade, I was talking about the wall, I was talking about the borders, I was talking about Obamacare, I was talking about the 2nd Amendment will be saved, by the way. The 2nd Amendment.
It will be saved. The 2nd Amendment is going to be with us if I’m president. You know, they’re doing everything. They want to get rid of the bullets now, they’re doing everything they can —
Think of Paris, think of Los Angeles. Think if you had some guns in Paris on the good side, right? They had no guns. Paris has the toughest guns in the world, folks. And France — I mean, you get caught with a gun, it’s — the only one that has guns are the bad guys. So they go in these various places, they called the guy the mastermind. He’s a moron. I mean, this guy was a moron. I call him the guy with the dirty hat, right? They got him so good. By the way, the French police did a great job and our Los Angeles police did a phenomenal job. They did a great job.
Wouldn’t it be wonderful if, let’s see, this guy right here in front of me, he’s a tough guy. This guy with the hat, with the lousy head of hair, but he’s a strong-looking guy right here. This guy right there, see? And that one. Wouldn’t it be nice if they had a gun on their waist? Somebody. Him, him, him, so that when they — you know what they were doing in Paris? Get over here, boom. Get over here, boom. Your turn, get over here, boom. One hundred and thirty people with more to follow because there are people that are so badly injured right now in hospitals. Other people are going to die.
Same thing over there. These are people that gave a party in honor of their marriage. There’s something going on, folks. It’s wrong. They gave them a party. They worked — they gave them a party. She came in on a fiance permit or some nonsense and she was radicalized, and he was probably radicalized by her or he was already radicalized.
And people knew that they were radicalized and people in the area knew that they had bombs — who the hell doesn’t know? You’re their next door neighbor. And they didn’t want to talk about it. You’ve got to report these people. We’ve got a real problem. You’ve got to report them. No more nonsense.
They didn’t report them, and the reason they didn’t is because they don’t disagree with them so much. OK? Believe me. It’s not because they were afraid. You saw the one who wasn’t politically correct to (ph) report them. They didn’t want to report them. I mean, give me a break. So we have to change.
So it started off with me where I was going to talk about trade, I was going to talk about all the things, I was going to talk about the military, building it up. I was going to do all of this, but after Paris and California, and there will be others because they have no fear of us, but after Paris and California, it has totally changed and my poll numbers went up 10 points.
It’s amazing. They went up 10 points. I said, "What, you think it was the debate?" Because I did good in the debate. They said, "No. People view you as a tough cookie that’s not going to take this crap." That’s what it is.
And now I talk about protection. I talk about — trust me. The trade — that’s so easy for me. I’ve got the greatest guys in the world. They’re going to come in, they’re going to do a great job. I’m going to do some myself. I always talk about Ford. They’re going to built a plant, $2.5 billion in Mexico. That’s not going to happen with me. That stuff is — those deals are no good.
Ford’s leaving. They’re closing plants all over Michigan to build a plant in — in Mexico. How the hell does that help us? OK. Who are the people that think this is a good thing for us? And in the meantime, in Michigan and other places, we have plants closing all over the place and they’re spending — think about a $2.5 billion — then they’re going to sell cars, trucks and parts into the United States, no tax, no nothing.
I’ll say you don’t have to pay a tax, folks. And you know what? Ford will say "If I (inaudible) pay a tax, we’re going to stay in the United States." I mean, it’s very simple.
It’s very simple. How about two weeks ago, Nabisco announced a big — Chicago. They announced they’re going to leave Chicago with one of their big plants and they’re going to move it to Mexico. What’s my statement? We’re not eating oreos anymore, right? No more.
But I don’t want this. It’s not going to happen. Then they’re make — they’re going to make product and they’re going to sell it into the United States? Not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. And by the way, I’m a free trader. I believe — we’ve got to be smart. I mean, we’ve got to get something. We don’t get anything out of anything. We don’t get anything.
We lose on everything. That Iran deal was a disaster. By the way, think of the Iran deal for one second. I always — and this came to me two weeks ago. I don’t know why I didn’t think of it sooner. Very disappointed with myself.
The Iran deal is the worst deal I’ve ever seen negotiated, OK? I’m wrong. You know what the worst deal is? Iran’s a part of that one too. We gave them Iraq. That’s even better. Think of it. We gave Iran Iraq. Iran has the biggest — think of it. They’re going to have the richest oil — if you go to Iraq, take a look. Among the largest oil reserves in the world.
We gave them, by decapitating Iraq and then leaving, because frankly, once we did it we should have kept 20,00 troops or something, we give Iraq. So not only did they make a great deal in terms of the Iran deal that we know having to do with nuclear, we also gave them Iraq. We gave them Iraq, that they’ve been after for 100 years. We handed it to them.
So now, they have the largest oil reserves among — in the world. That’s even better than the original deal. I mean, whoever is representing Iran is doing a hell of a job. OK? If that was a stock, you’ve got to buy some.
So we are not going to have deals like that with me. It’s not going to happen. We’re going to become rich again, we are going to become safe again and we are going to become strong again. And...
And you’re going to remember this moment. This is going to be an important moment for all of us. The one thing I have to say and I have to ask you to do, go out and vote. It’s going to be your turn.
Number three. Remember, it starts on February 1st with Iowa. We go to New Hampshire, then we go to the finals (ph), so three weeks. We’ve got four weeks to go, and then we have three weeks after we start. No matter what is going on in your life, you have got to out and vote. Because if you don’t, it’s not going to happen.
Don’t sit back and say, oh, Trump is going to do well. The more we can win by, you know, the more power we have in a sense, because it is like a mandate. But you have got to go out and vote. And I will tell you this. It has been an honor to be here, I love this area, I love the people here. It’s been an honor.
But we will make America great again, I promise. Thank you.
Thank you very much, everybody. Well, I want to begin by thanking the people of South Carolina. This is a special state. Thank you. These are special people and we got a little boost last week from a place we all remember  —  New Hampshire. We can't forget it. Special, special. We love it. And they sent us in here with a very good feeling, right?
 Very good feeling. So I really want to thank you and my volunteers. All of these people  —  volunteers and they travel and they  —  and I say, "what are you doing?" And now they're going to Texas and they're going all over. Some are going to Nevada. I'll be going to Nevada. We're making a big speech tomorrow in Atlanta and then we're going right to Nevada.
And I think we're going to do terrific and the SEC's (ph) going to be very, very exciting. We expect to do very, very well. Very well ...
 I want to just say thank you to my family. It's been not easy for them. They don't see me anymore. I'm making speeches all the time and I have a great. I really have a great family so I just want to thank all of you.
And Ivanka  —  you know we have a hospital ready just in case. In South Carolina we're going to have a baby. There's nothing wrong with that, right? So ...
 Could be  —  it could be any second. It could even be before I'm finished but it's  —  but she insisted on being here. It was so important to Ivanka to insist on being here so thank you. Really good and Jared, Vanessa, Don.
We have a wonderful lieutenant governor who backed us very early in the process.
 You know Henry, right? The lieutenant governor of South Carolina. I will take him over the governor anytime because we won. We won ...
 He handle that very nicely. He's tough. He's very tough. Tiffany, Eric, Lara and Melania. Melania, say something. Go ahead, please ...
M. TRUMP: Just want to say an amazing place  —  South Carolina. Congratulation to my husband. He was working very hard and he loves you. We love you and we're going ahead to Nevada. And we will see what happen (sic). He would be the best president ...
 And representing some very, very wonderful children, Ivanka. Just say a few words.
I. TRUMP: Thank you, South Carolina. This is an amazing, amazing night. The momentum since the beginning of this campaign has been unbelievable and that's because my father's message resonants so deeply with so many people. So as our family we're incredibly proud. We're incredibly grateful to each of you so thank you for being here to support us. And I will say this, my father is an incredibly hard worker and he'll be working for each and every one of you. So together we'll make America great again. Thank you ...
 Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So I was watching upstairs and it was really amazing to be watching what I was watching. And some of the pundits and overall fair but not too much. But a number of the pundits said, "well, if a couple of the other candidates dropped out if you add their scores together it's going to equal Trump."
But these geniuses  —  they're geniuses  —  they don't understand that as people drop out I'm going to get a lot of those votes also. You don't just ...
 You don't just add them together. So I think we're going to do very, very well. I think we're going to do very well. I want to also congratulate the other candidates. In particular I have to say Ted and Marco did a really good job and they got  —  they did quite well as I understand. No, come on. Just one minute. Come on. One second, right? Good.
OK. We go back to war tomorrow morning. Tomorrow morning we'll be back but I just want to congratulate the other candidates. There's nothing easy about running for president, I can tell you. It's tough, it's nasty, it's mean, it's vicious, it's beautiful.
(LAUGHTER)
 When you win it's beautiful and we're going to start  —  we are going to start winning for our country. We're going to start winning.
 Because our country doesn't win anymore. Doesn't win. We don't win with the military, we can't beat ISIS. We have great military but we can't beat ISIS. We don't win on trade. You look at what China's doing to us, what Japan does to us, what Mexico is just killing us at the border  —  at the border and with trade. Mexico is killing us  —  absolutely. We'll do the wall. Don't worry. We're going to do the wall.
  We're going to do the wall and by the way, who's going to pay for the wall?
 Mexico's going to pay for the wall and it's very easy. The other politicians come down, "you can't get Mexico to pay for the wall." I said, "100 percent." We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. The wall is going to cost $10 to $12 billion, OK? Believe me, they will pay. One of the officials  —  actually, one of the ex-officials from Mexico had a news conference.
And he announced that we will not be paying for the wall. Who does Mr. Trump think he is? They came to me  —  the press. These people  —  look at all those cameras back there.
 The press came to me and they told me that he said that he would not pay for the wall. Do you have a comment? I said, "yes. The wall just got 10 feet taller."
 It's true. And I love Mexico. I love Mexico, I love China, I love many of these countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incomptent and don't know what they're doing. I love these countries. They're great. I have thousands and thousands of Hispanics. We're going to Nevada.
I lead  —  I lead with the Hispanics. I'm leading in every poll with the Hispanics. They love me, I love them. The problem is  —  the problem is that the leaders of these countries whether it's Mexico or Japan or Viet Nam which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden or China in particular  —  that's the big one. The greatest abuse of a country that I think I've ever seen financially  —  China.
What they've done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. They've taken our jobs, they've taken our money, they've taken everything. We're bringing our jobs back, folks. We're bringing our jobs back. We're going to bring them back ...
 And I know how to do it. We've had so many  —  we've had so many incredible endorsements and to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is very important. Carl Icahn endorsed me, so many others have endorsed me.
And we're going to put these great business people in charge of trade and when China wants to come and negotiate, they're going to negotiate not with a political hack which is what they have now. They're going to negotiate with the best business minds in the world and we have them in this country.
  So we're going to do a lot of beautiful work. We're going to terminate Obamacare. It's going to terminated. It's going to be over ...
 It's going to be repealed and it's going to be replaced. And you're going to have much better health care at a much smaller cost because Obamacare  —  if you look  —  look at the increases in your Obamacare. Twenty-five, 35, 45, even 55 percent. It's dead. It's not working. We're going to go to a plan that's going to be so much better and so much less expensive.
 So second amendment by the way  —  this is a room loves the second amendment. Thank you, fellows. This is a room loves and cherishes the second amendment. We are going to protect our second amendment. Totally ...
 Common core is gone. We are getting rid of common core. We're brining education to a local level. The people in this community  —  every time I see them they want education locally. The parents, the teachers. They want to do it  —  they don't want bureaucrats in Washington telling them how to educate their children.
 We spend as a nation more for education per pupil than any other nation in the world. Not even close. More per pupil  —  second place doesn't even exist it's so different. And yet out of 30 countries we're ranked number 30. You have China, you have Norway, Swenden, Denmark and then you have number 30, the United States. So we spend the most and we're at the bottom of the heap. It's not going to happen anymore, folks. It's not going to happen anymore.
 We are going to build our military which I thank because a number of the people came down and a number of the pundits in Washington I  —  we love our military.
 We love our military. And by the way we love our police. Our police are terrific. We love our police ...
 They are not being treated properly. We're going to build our military so big, so good, so strong, so powerful that nobody is ever going to mess with us, folks.
  And we're going to buy  —  we're going to buy the equipment that our generals, our soldiers, that everybody that's in the know want. We're not buying equipment that sells because they have political pull (ph). Because they take campaign and they give campaign contributions.
We are going to get the equipment that they want, not the equipment that they're told to have by senators and congressmen in Washington. We're going to have great equipment.
 And the reason I can say that is I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these ...
 I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these special interests and lobbyists and donors that once they get it they literally do whatever the politicians want. That's not going to happen. And we're going to take care of our vets. We love our vets and they're being treated terribly. We're taking care of our vets.
 So we're now off to Nevada and it's a great state. We have great people. We have great people in our nation. No matter where we go  —  I went to Mobile, Alabama  —  35,000 people. We went to Oklahoma recently twice  —  20,000 people, 20,000 people. No matter where we go we fill up the arenas.
Over here the other day we had a 9,000  —  we had a 10,000  —  we have people. The only thing that stops the crowds are the walls because we can't get them in. We have to send thousands of people away.
Time Magazine  —  Time Magazine last year did an incredible cover story. They said "it's a movement." And that's what it is. It's an incredible movement with incredible people. Incredible people.
 It's an incredible movement with incredible people. I tell you. And whether we go  —  honestly whether we go to Dallas or whether we go anywhere you say  —  you go to L.A.  —  you go anywhere you say. Our people are incredible. And our theme  —  what's our theme? You know it, right?
 Our theme which I love may be the greatest theme of all time, right? And the word again eventually is going to come off. We're going to get rid of the whole theme because what's going to happen  —  make America great again, right?
And the last two weeks because I've gotten to see so many  —  I guess millions when you add them all up with all of these rooms and all of these speeches. And I've met so many people. But the people are so incredible that I've been saying make America great again and it's going to be greater than ever before. That's the kind of potential we have. Greater then every before.
I don’t see how there is any room for misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the statement I made on June 16th during my Presidential announcement speech. Here is what I said, and yet this statement is deliberately distorted by the media:
"When Mexico (meaning the Mexican Government) sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you (pointing to the audience). They’re not sending you (pointing again). They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems to us. They’re bringing drugs.They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people! But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we’re getting. And it only makes common sense. They’re sending us not the right people. It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it’s coming probably from the Middle East. But we don’t know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don’t know what’s happening. And it’s got to stop and it’s got to stop fast."
What can be simpler or more accurately stated? The Mexican Government is forcing their most unwanted people into the United States. They are, in many cases, criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc. This was evident just this week when, as an example, a young woman in San Francisco was viciously killed by a 5 time deported Mexican with a long criminal record, who was forced back into the United States because they didn’t want him in Mexico. This is merely one of thousands of similar incidents throughout the United States. In other words, the worst elements in Mexico are being pushed into the United States by the Mexican
government. The largest suppliers of heroin, cocaine and other illicit drugs are Mexican cartels that arrange to have Mexican immigrants trying to cross the borders and smuggle in the drugs. The Border Patrol knows this. Likewise, tremendous infectious disease is pouring across the border. The United States has become a dumping ground for Mexico and, in fact, for many other parts of the world. On the other hand, many fabulous people come in from Mexico and our country is better for it. But these people are here legally, and are severely hurt by those coming in illegally. I am proud to say that I know many hard working Mexicans—many of them are working for and with me...and, just like our country, my organization is better for it.
The Mexican Government wants an open border as long as it’s a ONE WAY open border into the United States. Not only are they killing us at the border, but they are killing us on trade ... and the country of Mexico is making billions of dollars in doing so.
I have great respect for Mexico and love their people and their peoples’ great spirit. The problem is, however, that their leaders are far smarter, more cunning, and better negotiators than ours. To the citizens of the United States, who I will represent far better than anyone else as President, the Mexican government is not our friend...and why should they be when the relationship is totally one sided in their favor on both illegal immigration and trade. I have pointed this out during my speeches and it is something Mexico doesn’t want me to say. In actuality, it was only after my significant rise in the polls that Univision, previously my friend, went ballistic. I believe that my examples of bad trade deals for the United States was of even more concern to the Mexican government than my talk of border security.
I have lost a lot during this Presidential run defending the people of the United States. I have always heard that it is very hard for a successful person to run for President. Macy’s, NBC, Serta and NASCAR have all taken the weak and very sad position of being politically correct even though they are wrong in terms of what is good for our country. Univision, because 70% of their business comes from Mexico, in my opinion, is being dictated to by the Mexican Government. The last thing Mexico wants is Donald Trump as President in that I will make great trade deals for the United States and will have an impenetrable border — only legally approved people will come through easily.
Interestingly, Univision has just announced they are attempting to go public despite very poor and even negative earnings, which is not a good situation for a successful IPO or high stock price—not to mention that I am currently suing them for breach of contract. Remember, Univision is the one who began this charade in the first place, and they are owned by one of Hillary Clinton’s biggest backers. After the speech was made, there were numerous compliments and indeed, many rave "reviews"—there was very little criticism. It wasn’t until a week after my announcement that people started to totally distort these very easy to understand words. If there was something stated incorrectly, it would have been brought up immediately and with great enthusiasm.
The issues I have addressed, and continue to address, are vital steps to Make America Great Again! Additionally, I would be the best jobs President that God ever created. Let’s get to work!
TRUMP: (OFF-MIKE) This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and all of the bad things and we all know what’s going on, and especially how poor she’d do as president in these very, very troubled times of radical Islamic terrorism.
TRUMP: Even her former Secret Service agent, who’s seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be our president. There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech very, very soon.
But today, there’s only one thing to discuss, the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders. The attack on the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was the worst terror strike on our soil since September 11th, and the worst mass shooting in our country’s history.
So many people — it’s just hard to believe, but just so many people dead, so many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a disgrace. The horror is beyond description. The families of these wonderful people are totally devastated, and they will be forever. Likewise, our whole nation and indeed the whole world is devastated.
We express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their families. We mourn as one people for our nation’s loss, and pledge our support to any and all who need it. I would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of silence for the victims of this attack.
Thank you. Our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of Orlando’s LGBT community. They have been through something that nobody could ever experience. This is a very dark moment in America’s history. A radical Islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub, not only because he wanted to kill Americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens, because of their sexual orientation.
It’s a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation. It’s an assault on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who they want, and express their identity. It’s an attack on the right of every single American to live in peace and safety in their own country.
We need to respond to this attack on America as one united people, with force, purpose, and determination. But the current politically correct response cripples our ability to talk and to think and act clearly. We’re not acting clearly, we’re not talking clearly, we’ve got problems.
If we don’t get tough, and if we don’t get smart, and fast, we’re not going to have our country anymore. There will be nothing, absolutely nothing, left. The killer, whose name I will not use, or ever say, was born in Afghan, of Afghan parents, who immigrated to the United States.
His father published support for the Afghan Taliban, a regime which murders those who don’t share its radical views, and they murdered plenty. The father even said he was running for president of Afghanistan. The bottom line is that the only reason the killer was in America in the first place, was because we allowed his family to come here.
That is a fact, and it’s a fact we need to talk about. We have a dysfunctional immigration system, which does not permit us to know who we let into our country, and it does not permit us to protect our citizens properly. We have an incompetent administration.
And if I’m elected president, that will not change, I will tell you, that will not change over the next four years. We have an administration that will not change. But if I get in there, it’s going to change, and it’s going to change quickly. We’re going from totally incompetent to just the opposite, believe me.
TRUMP: Thank you.
With 50 people dead and perhaps more ultimately and dozens more wounded, we cannot afford to talk around issues anymore. We have to address these issues head-on. I called for a ban after San Bernardino and was met with great scorn and anger but now many years and I have to say many years but many are saying that I was right to do so. And although the pause is temporary we must find out what is going on. We have to do it.
It will be lifted — this ban — when and as a nation we’re in a position to properly and perfectly screen these people coming into our country. They’re pouring in and we don’t know what we’re doing. The immigration laws of the United States give the president powers to suspend entry into the country of any class of persons. Now, any class — it really is determined and to be determined by the president for the interests of the United States. And it’s as he or she deems appropriate. Hopefully it’s he in this case.
Thank you. I will use this power to protect the American people. When I’m elected I will suspend immigration from areas of the world where there’s a proven history of terrorism against the United States, Europe or our allies until we fully understand how to end these threats. After a full ...
Thank you.
And by the way we have no choice. After a full and partial and long — really long overdue security assessment we will develop a responsible immigration policy that serves the interests and values of America.
We cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our country many of whom have the same thought process as this savage killer. Many of the principles of radical Islam are incompatible with Western values and institutions.
 Remember this, radical Islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti- American.
I refuse to allow America to become a place where gay people, Christian people, Jewish people are targets of persecution and intimation by radical Islamic preachers of hate and violence.
This is not just a national security issue. It’s a quality of life issue. If we want to protect the quality of life for all Americans — women and children, gay and straight, Jews and Christians and all people then we need to tell the truth about radical Islam and we need to do it now.
We need to tell the truth also about how radical Islam is coming to our shores. And it’s coming ...
With these people, folks, it’s coming. We’re importing radical Islamic terrorism into the West through a failed immigration system and through an intelligence community held back by our president. Even our own FBI director has admitted that we cannot effectively check the backgrounds of people we’re letting into America. All of the September 11th hijackists were issued visas. Large numbers of Somali refugees in Minnesota have tried to join ISIS.
The Boston bombers came here through political asylum. The male shooter in San Bernardino again whose name I will not mention was the child of immigrants from Pakistan and he brought his wife, the other terrorist from Saudi Arabia through another one of our easily exploited visa programs.
TRUMP: Immigration from Afghanistan into the United States has increased nearly five fold — five fold in just one year. According to Pew Research, 99 percent of the people in Afghanistan support oppressive sharia law. We admit many more, and that’s just the way it is. We admit many more from other countries in the region.
And I’ll tell you what: They share these oppressive views and values. We want to remain a free and open society. Then, and if we do, then we have to control our borders. We have to control, and we have to control them now, not later. Right now.
Thank you.
Yet Hillary Clinton, for months, and despite so many attacks, repeatedly refused to even say the words radical Islam until I challenged her yesterday. And, guess what, she will probably say them. She sort of has said them, but let’s see what happens. She really has no choice, but she doesn’t want to.
However, she’s really been forced, and she has been forced to say these words. She supports, and the reason is, she supports so much of what is wrong, and what is wrong with this country, and what’s going wrong with our country and our borders. She has no clue, in my opinion, what radical Islam is and she won’t speak honestly about it if she does, in fact, know. She’s in total denial, and her continuing reluctance to ever name the enemy broadcasts weakness across the entire world — true weakness.
I don’t know if you know this, but just a few weeks before San Bernardino, the slaughter, that’s all it was was a slaughter, Hillary Clinton explained her refusal to say the words "radical Islam." Here is what she said, exact quote, "Muslims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with terrorism." That is Hillary Clinton.
So, she says the solution is to ban guns. They tried that in France which has among the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world, and 130 people were brutally murdered by Islamic terrorists in cold blood. Her plan is to disarm law abiding Americans, abolishing the Second Amendment, and leaving only the bad guys and terrorists with guns. No good. Not going to happen, folks. Not going to happen. Not going to happen.
Thank you.
She wants to take away American’s guns and then admit the very people who want to slaughter us. Let them come into the country, we don’t have guns. Let them come in, let them have all the fun they want.
I will be meeting with the NRA, which has given me their earliest endorsement in a presidential race, to discuss how to ensure Americans have the means to protect themselves in this age of terror. I will be always defending the Second Amendment.
Thank you. Thank you.
The bottom line is that Hillary supports policies that bring the threat of radical Islam into American and allow it to grow oversees, and it is growing. In fact, Hillary Clinton’s catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly more radical Islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only our society but our entire way of life. When it comes to radical Islamic terrorism, ignorance is not bliss. It’s deadly — totally deadly.
The Obama administration, with the support of Hillary Clinton and others, has also damaged our security by restraining our intelligence gathering and we have, just, no intelligence gathering information. We need this information so badly, and he stopped it. We don’t have the support. We don’t have the support of the law enforcement system because Obama is not letting them do their job. They are not being allowed to do their job. And, they can do it well — better than anybody.
We need a new leader. We need a new leader fast.
TRUMP: Thank you.
They have put political correctness above common sense, above your safety, and above all else. I refuse to be politically correct.
I want to do the right thing. I want to straighten things out and I want to make America great again.
The days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon if I’m elected. As president I will give our intelligence community, law enforcement and military the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks. They don’t have those tools now.
We need an intelligence gathering system second to none. Second to none. That includes better cooperation between state, local and federal officials, and with our allies, very importantly. I will have an Attorney General, a Director of National Intelligence and a Secretary of Defense who’ll know how to fight a war on radical Islamic terrorism.
And they will have the support that they need to get the job done right, not like it is right now. It’s not right.
We also must ensure the American people are provided the information they need to understand the threat. The Senate subcommittee on Immigration has already identified hundreds of immigrants charged with terrorist activities inside the United States since September 11th. Nearly a year ago, the Senate Subcommittee asked President Obama’s Department of Justice, State and Homeland Security to provide the immigration history of all terrorists inside the United States. These Departments refused to comply. Nobody even knows why. They refused to comply.
President Obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all individuals implicated in terrorist activities of any kind since September 11th. So important. The public has a right to know how these people got here, how they came on to this great land, why are they here?
We have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with or supporting radical groups and beliefs, very simple. We have to control the amount of future immigration into this country and we have to prevent large pockets of radicalization from forming inside America. Not complicated.
Every – and just think of this. Take a look. Every single event, even a single individual can be devastating, and all you have to do is take a look at what happened in Orlando and what happened in other cases. Just a single event. And just one person. Can you imagine what they’ll do in large groups, which we’re allowing now to come here.
Truly our President doesn’t know what he’s doing. He’s failed us and he’s failed us badly. Under his leadership this situation will not get any better, it will only get worse. And I’ve been saying that for a long time. Each year the United States permanently admits 100,000 immigrants from the Middle East and many more from Muslim countries outside of the Middle East. Our government has been admitting ever- growing numbers, year after year, without any effective plan for our own security.
In fact, Clinton’s State Department was in charge of admissions and the admissions process for people applying to enter from overseas. Having learned nothing from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase admissions without a screening plan including a 500 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into our country. Tell me, tell me – how stupid is that?
This could be a better, bigger, more horrible version than the legendary Trojan Horse ever was. Altogether, under the Clinton plan, you’d be admitting hundreds of thousands of refugees from the Middle East with no system to vet them, or to prevent the radicalization of the children and their children. Not only their children, by the way, they’re trying to take over our children and convince them how wonderful ISIS is and how wonderful Islam is and we don’t know what’s happening.
TRUMP: The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why she believes immigration from these dangerous countries should be increased without any effective system to really to screen. We’re not screening people.
So why don’t we have an effective screening system? We don’t. We’re being laughed at all over the world. The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why we should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian Americans. The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us how she will pay for it, her plan will cost hundreds of billions of dollars long term.
Wouldn’t this be money better spent rebuilding America for our current population including the many poor people already living here. We have cities, we have inner cities...
We have poverty all over and this is how we’re spending billions of dollars. We have to stop the tremendous flow of Syrian refugees into the United States. We don’t know who they are, they have no documentation and we don’t know what they’re planning and we won’t unless we have proper supervisor and proper leadership in which case they’re out of here. What I want...
What I want is common sense. I want a mainstream immigration policy that promotes American values. That’s a choice I put before the American people. A mainstream immigration policy designed to benefit America or Hillary Clinton’s radical immigration policy designed to benefit politically correct special interests. That’s all it is. We’ve got to get smart and tough and vigilant and we’ve got to do it now because later is too late — going to be too late for our country.
The media talks about home grown terrorism but Islamic radicalism and that’s a very, very important term — a term that the president refuses to use and the networks that nurture it are imports from overseas whether you like it or whether you don’t like it. Yes, there are many radicalized people already inside our country as a result of poor policies of the past.
But the whole point is that we will be much, much and it will be easier to deal with our current problem if we don’t keep on bringing people who add to the problem. And that’s what they’re doing. We’re letting all of these people — hundreds of thousands of people come in and all they’re doing is adding to this incredible problem we have.
For instance, the controversial mosque attended by the Boston bombers had at its founder and as its founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an assassination plot. This shooter and amazingly in Orlando was the child of an immigrant father who supported one of the most repressive regimes on earth. Why would we admit people who support violent hatred?
Hillary Clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as she continues to support immigration policies that bring Islamic extremists to our country and who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesn’t share their views or values.
She can’t have it both ways. She can’t claim to be supportive of these communities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who want to oppress these same communities. How does this kind of immigration make our lives better? How does this kind of immigration make our country better? Why does Hillary Clinton want to bring people in in vast numbers who reject our values? Why? Explain.
Ask yourself who is really the friend of women and the LGBT community, Donald Trump with actions or Hillary Clinton with her words?
TRUMP: I will tell you who the better friend is and some day I believe that will be proven out bigly (ph).
And by the way the LGBT community is just — what’s happened to them is just so sad and to be thinking about where their policies are currently with this administration is a disgrace to that community, I will tell you right now.
Clinton wants to allow radical Islamic terrorists to pour into our country. They enslave women, and they murder gays. I don’t want them in our country.
Immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who doesn’t support our communities. All of our communities, every single one of them. Americans already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on Earth, anybody in the world. Four times more. At least, because we don’t even know who’s coming in. And we continue to admit millions more with no real checks or scrutiny.
Not surprisingly, wages for our workers haven’t budged. In almost 20 years. You wonder why we get the crowds, you wonder why we get this tremendous support, you wonder why I’ve gotten more votes than any Republican in any primary in the history of the Republican Party? Take a look at that. Take a look at your security, take a look at the wages. For 18 years they’ve been stagnant, they’ve even gone down.
So whether it’s a matter of national security, or financial security, we can’t afford to keep on going like this. Cannot afford it. We owe $19 trillion in debt. And no longer have any options. Our communities from all backgrounds are ready for some relief. This is not an act of offense against anyone. It’s really an act of defense. I want us all, all of us, to work together. We have to form a partnership, with our Muslim communities. We have Muslim communities in this country that are great, and we have to form that partnership.
Now, the Muslim community, so important. They have to work with us. They have to cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the people who they know are bad. They know it. And they have to do it, and they have to do it forthwith. I want to fix our schools. I want to fix our bridges. And our jobs market, we’re going to have it rocket again, we’re going to make great trade deals. But I want every American to succeed including Muslims.
But the Muslims have to work with us. They have to work with us. They know what’s going on. They know that he was bad. They knew the people in San Bernardino were bad. But you know what? They didn’t turn them in. And you know what? We had death, and destruction.
Hillary Clinton wants to empty out the Treasury to bring people into the country that include individuals who preach hate against our citizens. I want to protect our citizens, all of our citizens. The terrorist attack on Pulse nightclub demands a full and complete investigation into every single aspect of the assault. In San Bernardino, as an example, people who knew what was going on, they knew exactly, but they used the excuse of racial profiling for not reporting it. They said oh, "We thought so but we didn’t want to use racial profiling." Which was probably an excuse given to them by their lawyer, so they don’t get in trouble.
We need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends and associates. We need to know if he was affiliated with any radical mosques or radical activists and what, if any, is their immigration status. We have to know, and we have to know fast. We need to know if he traveled anywhere and who he traveled with. We need to know, and we need to make sure, every single last person involved in this plan, including anyone who knew something but didn’t tell us, is brought to justice, so when people know what’s going on and they don’t tell us, and we have an attack, and people die, these people have to have consequences. Big consequences.
America must do more — much more — to protect its citizens, especially people who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or sexual orientation, as you just saw in Orlando.
TRUMP: It also means we must change our foreign policy. The decision to overthrow the regime in Libya, then pushing for the overthrow of the regime in Syria, among other things, without plans for the day after, have created space for ISIS to expand and grow like nobody has ever seen before.
These actions, along with our disastrous Iran deal, have also reduced our ability to work in partnership with our Muslim allies in the region. That is why our new goal must be to defeat Islamic terrorism not nation building. No more nation building. It’s never going to work.
And by the way we’ve spent almost $5 trillion over the years on trying to nation build in the Middle East and it has been complete and total disaster. We’re further away now than we were 15 years ago. For instance, the last major NATO mission was Hillary Clinton’s war in Libya. That mission helped to unleash ISIS on a new continent.
I’ve said NATO need to change its focus and stop terrorism. We have to focus on terrorism and we have to stop terrorism. Since I’ve raised that criticism and it’s OK. I’ve gotten no credit for it but these are minor details — NATO has since announced a new initiative — front page of the Wall Street Journal four days ago focused on just that. America must unite the whole civilized world in the fight against Islamic terrorism.
Pretty much like we did with communism during the Cold War. We tried it President Obama’s way, doesn’t work. He gave the world his apology tour. We got ISIS and many other problems in return. That’s what we got. Remember the famous apology tour. We’re sorry for everything.
I’d like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solitarily with the people of Orlando who have come under this horrific attack. When I’m president I pledge to protect and defend all Americans who live inside our borders. Wherever they come from, wherever they were born, I don’t care. All Americans living here and following our laws not other laws will be protected.
Thank you. Thank you. We’re going to be tough and we’re going to be smart and we’re going to do it right. America will be a tolerant and open society. America will also be a safe society. We will protect our borders at home. We will defeat ISIS overseas. We have no choice. We will ensure every parent can raise their children in peace and safety. We will make America rich again. We will make America safe again. We will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it. Thank you.
Good evening. Thank you very much. I speak to you today as a lifelong supporter and true friend of Israel. I am a newcomer to politics but not to backing the Jewish state.
In late 2001, weeks after the attacks on New York City, and on Washington, and frankly the attacks on all of us, attacks that perpetrated... and they were perpetrated by the Islamic fundamentalists, Mayor Rudy Giuliani visited Israel to show solidarity with terror victims. I sent my plane because I backed the mission for Israel 100 percent.
In Spring of 2004, at the height of the violence in the Gaza Strip, I was the Grand Marshal of the 40th Salute to Israel Parade, the largest single gathering in support of the Jewish state. It was a very dangerous time for Israel and frankly for anyone supporting Israel, many people turned down this honor. I did not. I took the risk and I’m glad I did.
But I didn’t come here tonight to pander to you about Israel. That’s what politicians do. All talk, no action, believe me. I came here to speak to you about where I stand on the future of American relations with our strategic ally, our unbreakable friendship, and our cultural brother. The only democracy in the Middle East, the State of Israel.
My number one priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with Iran. I have been in business a long time. I know deal-making and let me tell you, this deal is catastrophic, for America, for Israel, and for the whole of the Middle East.
The problem here is fundamental. We have rewarded the world’s leading state sponsor of terror with $150 billion dollars, and we received absolutely nothing in return.
I’ve studied this issue in great detail. I would say actually, greater by far than anybody else. Believe me, and it’s a bad deal. The biggest concern with the deal is not necessarily that Iran is going to violate it, because already, as you know, it has. The bigger problem is that they can keep the terms and still get the bomb by simply running out the clock. And of course, they’ll keep the billions and billions of dollars that we so stupidly and foolishly gave them.
The deal doesn’t even require Iran to dismantle its military nuclear capability. Yes, it places limits on its military nuclear program for only a certain number of years. But when those restrictions expire, Iran will have an industrial size military nuclear capability ready to go, and with zero provision for delay, no matter how bad Iran’s behavior is. Terrible, terrible situation that we are all placed in, and especially Israel.
When I’m president, I will adopt a strategy that focuses on three things when it comes to Iran. First, we will stand up to Iran’s aggressive push to destabilize and dominate the region. Iran is a very big problem and will continue to be, but if I’m not elected President, I know how to deal with trouble, and believe me, that’s why I’m going to be elected president folks. And we are leading in every poll, remember that please.
Iran is a problem in Iraq, a problem in Syria, a problem in Lebanon, a problem in Yemen, and will be a very, very major problem for Saudi Arabia. Literally every day, Iran provides more and better weapons to support their puppet states. Hezbollah, Lebanon received, and I’ll tell you what, it has received sophisticated anti-ship weapons, anti-aircraft weapons, and GPS systems and rockets. like very few people anywhere in the world, and certainly very few countries have.
Now they’re in Syria trying to establish another front against Israel from the Syrian side of the Golan Heights. In Gaza, Iran is supporting Hamas and Islamic Jihad. And in the West Bank they’re openly offering Palestinians $7,000 per terror attack and $30,000 for every Palestinian terrorist’s home that’s been destroyed. A deplorable, deplorable situation. Iran is financing military forces throughout the Middle East, and it’s absolutely incredible that we handed them over $150 billion to do even more toward the many horrible acts of terror.
Secondly, we will totally dismantle Iran’s global terror network, which is big and powerful, but not powerful like us. Iran has seeded terror groups all over the world. During the last five years, Iran has perpetrated terror attacks in 25 different countries on five continents. They’ve got terror cells everywhere, including in the western hemisphere very close to home. Iran is the biggest sponsor of terrorism around the world and we will work to dismantle that reach, believe me, believe me.
Third, at the very least, we must enforce the terms of the previous deal, to hold Iran totally accountable. And we will enforce it like you’ve never seen a contract enforced before folks. Believe me.
Iran has already since the deal is in place, test-fired ballistic missiles three times. Those ballistic missiles with a range of 1,250 miles were designed to intimidate not only Israel, which is only 600 miles away, but also intended to frighten Europe, and maybe someday hit even the United States. And we’re not going to let that happen. We’re not letting it happen, and we’re not letting it happen to Israel, believe me.
Do you want to hear something really shocking? As many of the great people in this room know, painted on those missiles in both Hebrew and Farsi, were the words "Israel must be wiped off the face of the earth." You can forget that!
What kind of demented minds write that in Hebrew? And here’s, you talk about twisted, here’s another twisted part: testing these missiles does not even violate the horrible deal that we made! The deal is silent on test missiles, but those tests do violate United Nations Security Council resolutions. The problem is, no one has done anything about it. We will, we will, I promise we will.
Which brings me to my next point. The utter weakness and incompetence of the United Nations. The United Nations is not a friend of democracy. It’s not a friend to freedom. It’s not a friend even to the United States of America, where as you know, it has its home. And it surely is not a friend to Israel.
With President Obama in his final year, yay! He may be the worst thing to ever happen to Israel, believe me. Believe me, and you know it, and you know it better than anybody.
So with the president in his final year, discussions have been swirling about an attempt to bring a Security Council resolution on terms of an eventual agreement between Israel and Palestine. Let me be clear. An agreement imposed by the United Nations would be a total and complete disaster. The United States must oppose this resolution and use the power of our veto, which I will use as president, 100 percent.
When people ask why, it’s because that’s not how you make a deal. Deals are made when parties come together. They come to a table and they negotiate. Each side must give up something it values, I mean we have to do something where there’s value in exchange for something that it requires. That’s what a deal is. A deal is really something that when we impose it on Israel and Palestine, we bring together a group of people that come up with something. That’s not going to happen with the United Nations. It will only further, very importantly, it will only further delegitimize Israel. It will be a catastrophe and a disaster for Israel. It’s not going to happen folks.
And further, it would reward Palestinian terrorism, because every day they’re stabbing Israelis, and even Americans. Just last week, American Taylor Allen Force, a West Point grad, phenomenol young person who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, was murdered in the street by a knife-wielding Palestinian. You don’t reward behavior like that. You can not do it! There is only one way you treat that kind of behavior. You have to confront it!
So, it’s not up the United Nations to go with a solution. It’s really the parties that must negotiate a resolution themselves. You have no choice. They have to do it themselves, or it will never hold up anyway. The United States can be useful as a facilitator of negotiations, but no one should be telling Israel that it must abide by some agreement made by others thousands of miles away that don’t even really know what’s happening to Israel, to anything in the area. It’s so preposterous. We’re not going to let that happen. When I’m president, believe me, I will veto any attempt by the UN to impose its will on the Jewish state. It will be vetoed 100 percent.
You see, I know about deal-making. That’s what I do. I wrote ‘The Art of the Deal’. One of the best-selling, all-time, and I mean seriously, I’m saying ‘one of’, because I’ll be criticized as though I say ‘the’, so I’m going to be very diplomatic. One of... I’ll be criticized. I think it is number one, but why take a chance. One of the best-selling, all-time books about deals and deal making.
To make a great deal, you need two willing participants. We know Israel is willing to deal. Israel has been trying to sit down at the negotiating table without pre-conditions for years. You had Camp David in 2000, where Prime Minister Barak made an incredible offer, maybe even too generous. Arafat rejected it. In 2008, Prime Minister Olmert made an equally generous offer. The Palestinian Authority rejected it also. Then John Kerry tried to come up with a framework and Abbas didn’t even respond, not even to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. They didn’t even respond.
When I become President, the days of treating Israel like a second-class citizen will end on Day One. And when I say something, I mean it. I mean it. I will meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu immediately. I have known him for many years and we’ll be able to work closely together to help bring stability and peace to Israel and to the entire region.
Meanwhile, every single day, you have rampant incitement and children being taught to hate Israel and hate the Jews. It has to stop. When you live in a society where the firefighters are the hero’s, little kids want to be firefighters. When you live in a society where athletes and movie stars are the heroes, little kids want to be athletes and movie stars. In Palestinian society, the heroes are those who murder Jews. we can’t let this continue. We can’t let this happen any longer.
You cannot achieve peace if terrorists are treated as martyrs. Glorifying terrorists is a tremendous barrier to peace. It is a horrible, horrible way to think. It’s a barrier that can’t be broken. That will end, and it’ll end soon, believe me. In Palestinian textbooks and mosques, you’ve got a culture of hatred that has been fermenting there for years, and if we want to achieve peace, they’ve got to go out, and they’ve got to start this educational process. They have to end education of hatred. They have to end it, and now!
There is no moral equivalency. Israel does not name public squares after terrorists. Israel does not pay its children to stab random Palestinians. You see, what President Obama gets wrong about deal making is that he constantly applies pressure to our friends and rewards our enemies. And you see that happening all the time. That pattern practiced by the President and his administration, including former Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, who is a total disaster by the way. She and President Obama have treated Israel very, very badly. But its repeated itself over and over again, and has done nothing to embolden those who hate America. We saw that with releasing the $150 billion dollars to Iran in the hope that they would magically join the world community. It didn’t happen.
President Obama thinks that applying pressure to Israel will force the issue, but it’s precisely the opposite that happened. Already, half of the population of Palestine has been taken over by the Palestinian ISIS in Hamas, and the other half refuses to confront the first half, so it’s a very difficult situation thats never going to get solved, unless you have great leadership right here in the United States. We’ll get it solved, one way or the other. We will get it solved. But when the United States stands with Israel, the chances of peace really rise, and rises exponentially. That’s what will happen when Donald Trump is President of the United States.
We will move the American embassy to the eternal capital of the Jewish people, Jerusalem. And we will send a clear signal that there is no daylight between America and our most reliable ally, the State of Israel. The Palestinians must come to the table knowing that the bond between the United States and Israel is absolutely, totally unbreakable. They must come to the table willing and able to stop the terror being committed on a daily basis against Israel. They must do that. And they must come to the table willing to accept that Israel is a Jewish State and it will forever exist as a Jewish State.
I love the people in this room. I love Israel. I love Israel. I’ve been with Israel so long in terms of, I’ve received some of my greatest honors from Israel. My father before me, incredible. My daughter Ivanka is about to have a beautiful Jewish baby. In fact it could be happening right now which would be very nice as far as I’m concerned.
So I want to thank you very much. This has been a truly great honor. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Wow. Thank you very much. Hello. I’d like to begin by thanking the people of Montana, South Dakota, New Mexico, New Jersey and California. We had some big, big days and we have some big numbers coming in, very big numbers.
I’m truly honored by your support. Together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible and you know what that is and we’re only getting started and it’s going to be beautiful, remember that.
Tonight we close one chapter in history and we begin another. Our campaign received more primary votes than any GOP campaign in history, no matter who it is, no matter who they are, we received more votes. This is a great feeling. That’s a great feeling.
This is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed real change, not Obama change, but real change is possible. You’ve given me the honor to lead the Republican Party to victory this fall. We’re going to do it. We’re going to do it, folks. We’re going to do it.
I understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and I will never, ever let you down – too much work, too many people, blood, sweat and tears. I’m never going to let you down. I will make you proud of your party and our movement, and that’s what it is, is a movement.
Now recent polls have shown that I’m beating Hillary Clinton and with all of her many problems and the tremendous mistakes that she’s made and she has tremendous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially. To everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you. I want to thank you very, very much.
To those who voted for someone else in either party, I will work hard to earn your support and I will work very hard to earn that support. To all of those Bernie Sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms. And by the way, the terrible trade deals that Bernie was so vehemently against and he’s right on that will be taken care of far better than anyone ever thought possible and that’s what I do. We are going to have fantastic trade deals. We’re going to start making money and bringing in jobs.
Now I know some people say I’m too much of a fighter. My preference is always peace, however and I’ve shown that. I’ve shown that for a long time. I built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties involved, always. My goal is always again to bring people together. But if I’m forced to fight for something I really care about, I will never, ever back down and our country will never, ever back down.
Thank you. I’ve fought for my family. I’ve fought for my business. I’ve fought for my employees. And now, I’m going to fight for you, the American people like nobody has ever fought before. And I’m not a politician fighting, I’m me. You’re going to see some real good things happen.
Just remember this: I’m going to be your champion. I’m going to be America’s champion because you see this election isn’t about Republican or Democrat; it’s about who runs this country – the special interests or the people and I mean the American people.
Every election year politicians promise change. Obama promised change and it didn’t work out too well. And every year they fail to deliver. Why would politicians want to change a system that’s totally rigged in order to keep them in power? That’s what they’re doing, folks. Why would politicians want to change a system that’s made them and their friends very, very wealthy? I beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming support, the only way you could’ve done it – landslides all over the country with every demographic on track to win; 37 primary caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very talented people.
After years of disappointment, there is one thing we all have learned – we can’t fix the rigged system by relying on very, and I mean this so, so strongly, on the very people who rigged it, and they rigged it, and do not ever think anything differently. We can’t solve our problems by counting on the politicians who created our problems.
The Clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form for themselves. They’ve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, selling favors, selling government contracts, and I mean hundreds of millions of dollars. Secretary Clinton even did all of the work on a totally illegal private server. Something about how she’s getting away with this folks nobody understands.
Designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security of the entire country at risk and a President in a corrupt system is totally protecting her – not right. I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week and we’re going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons. I think you’re going to find it very informative and very, very interesting. I wonder if the press will want to attend, who knows.
Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into her private hedge fund – the Russians, the Saudis, the Chinese – all gave money to Bill and Hillary and got favorable treatment in return. It’s a sad day in America when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence in our own country than our great citizens.
I didn’t need to do this. It’s not easy, believe me. I didn’t need to do it. But I felt I had to give back to our wonderful country which has been so good to me and to my family. I’ve traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in people’s eyes. I’ve visited communities in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Indiana and Ohio whose manufacturing jobs, they literally, these jobs have virtually disappeared, an embarrassment to our country and it’s horrible. I’ve embraced the victims of illegal immigration, moms and dads who have had to bury their own children because of people that shouldn’t have been in the country – remember it, folks, remember it.
I visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools. I’ve seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges and I’ve compared them to other countries where we see facilities so far superior to ours it’s really not to be believed, hard to imagine what’s happened to our country. America is getting taken apart piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly, auctioned off to the highest bidder. We’re broke, we’re broke. We owe $19 trillion dollars going quickly to $21 trillion. Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our schools are failing. Crime is rising. People are scared. The last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the White House or an extension of the Obama disaster.
What a crowd, what a crowd. Thank you all very much. We love our country, we love our country. But we can turn this all around. We’re going to do it by putting America first. That commitment is the foundation for change that’s been missing and it’s been missing for a long time. It’s important to understand what America First means. It means on foreign policy we will never enter into any kind conflict unless it makes us safer as a nation. It has to make us safer as a nation. This is the opposite of Hillary’s foreign policy which invaded Libya, destabilized Iraq, unleashed ISIS and threw Syria into chaos and created the mass migration which is wreaking havoc all over the world, and while putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the Middle East and they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks. We have made them that way.
You better hope I’m President. On trade, America First means the American worker will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition. What’s happening there is absolutely a disgrace. No PPP, you’re right about that and you mean no PP. We are going, and remember this; we are only going to have great trade deals, OK. We are only going to have that. We’re not going to approve, as somebody just said, the TransPacific Partnership which is a disaster, a disaster, for our country, almost as bad as NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton, which has just stripped our country of our factories and our manufacturing and moved them to other places, in particular Mexico. If it’s not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it. It’s got to be great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here because believe me we are all suffering and we’re suffering bigly and it’s getting worse.
On energy policy, America First means opening up America’s great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers including our wonderful and hard-working miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this Administration.
On economic policy, America First means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the United States, substantially lowering taxes for middle class Americans and business; likewise, regulation which is strangling our economy which would be brought down from its present insane level. We will make it very, very good for our companies, for our small business and for people that want to survive and do well in our country.
On immigration policy, America First means protecting the jobs, wages and security of American workers, whether first or tenth generation. No matter who you are, we’re going to protect your job because let me tell you our jobs are being stripped from our country like we’re babies. The beauty of America First is that it brings us all together. Every American worker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections and rights and privileges; it’s got to be that way. Now, the people in charge say things can’t change. I’m here today to tell you that we have to change. We have no choice. We have to change.
We’re going to put America back to work. We’re going to make our own products. We’re going to put America back to work. We’re going to rebuild our inner cities which are absolutely a shame and so sad. We’re going to take care of our African American people that have been mistreated for so long. We’re going to make you and your family safe, secure and prosperous, prosperous again. Together, we will put the American people first again, first again.
We will make our communities wealthy. We will make our cities safe again. We will make our country strong again. Ladies and gentlemen, we will make America great again, remember. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody.
Thank you for joining me today.
This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and how bad a President, especially in these times of Radical Islamic Terrorism, she would be.
Even her former Secret Service Agent, who has seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be president.
There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech soon.
But today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders.
The attack on the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was the worst terrorist strike on our soil since September 11th, and the worst mass shooting in our country’s history.
So many people dead, so many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a disgrace.
The horror is beyond description.
The families of these wonderful people are totally devastated. Likewise, our whole nation, and indeed the whole world, is devastated.
We express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their families.
We mourn, as one people, for our nation’s loss – and pledge our support to any and all who need it.
I would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of silence for the victims of the attack.
Our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of Orlando's LGBT Community.
This is a very dark moment in America’s history.
A radical Islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub not only because he wanted to kill Americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens because of their sexual orientation.
It is a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation.
It is an assault on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who they want and express their identity.
It is an attack on the right of every single American to live in peace and safety in their own country.
We need to respond to this attack on America as one united people – with force, purpose and determination.
But the current politically correct response cripples our ability to talk and think and act clearly.
If we don't get tough, and we don't get smart – and fast – we're not going to have a country anymore  —  there will be nothing left.
The killer, whose name I will not use, or ever say, was born to Afghan parents who immigrated to the United States. His father published support for the Afghan Taliban, a regime which murders those who don’t share its radical views. The father even said he was running for President of that country.
The bottom line is that the only reason the killer was in America in the first place was because we allowed his family to come here.
That is a fact, and it's a fact we need to talk about.
We have a dysfunctional immigration system which does not permit us to know who we let into our country, and it does not permit us to protect our citizens.
We have an incompetent administration, and if I am not elected President, that will not change over the next four years  —  but it must change, and it must change now.
With fifty people dead, and dozens more wounded, we cannot afford to talk around the issue anymore  —  we have to address it head on.
I called for a ban after San Bernardino, and was met with great scorn and anger but now, many are saying I was right to do so  —  and although the pause is temporary, we must find out what is going on. The ban will be lifted when we as a nation are in a position to properly and perfectly screen those people coming into our country.
The immigration laws of the United States give the President the power to suspend entry into the country of any class of persons that the President deems detrimental to the interests or security of the United States, as he deems appropriate.
I will use this power to protect the American people. When I am elected, I will suspend immigration from areas of the world when there is a proven history of terrorism against the United States, Europe or our allies, until we understand how to end these threats.
After a full, impartial and long overdue security assessment, we will develop a responsible immigration policy that serves the interests and values of America.
We cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our country, many of whom have the same thought process as this savage killer.
Many of the principles of Radical Islam are incompatible with Western values and institutions.
Radical Islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti-American.
I refuse to allow America to become a place where gay people, Christian people, and Jewish people, are the targets of persecution and intimidation by Radical Islamic preachers of hate and violence.
It’s not just a national security issue. It is a quality of life issue.
If we want to protect the quality of life for all Americans – women and children, gay and straight, Jews and Christians and all people – then we need to tell the truth about Radical Islam.
We need to tell the truth, also, about how Radical Islam is coming to our shores.
We are importing Radical Islamic Terrorism into the West through a failed immigration system  —  and through an intelligence community held back by our president.
Even our own FBI Director has admitted that we cannot effectively check the backgrounds of the people we are letting into America.
All of the September 11th hijackers were issued visas.
Large numbers of Somali refugees in Minnesota have tried to join ISIS.
The Boston Bombers came here through political asylum.
The male shooter in San Bernardino – again, whose name I won't mention  —  was the child of immigrants from Pakistan, and he brought his wife – the other terrorist - from Saudi Arabia, through another one of our easily exploited visa programs.
Immigration from Afghanistan into the United States has increased nearly five-fold in just one year. According to Pew Research, 99% of people in Afghanistan support oppressive Sharia Law.
We admit many more from other countries in the region who share these same oppressive views.
If we want to remain a free and open society, then we have to control our borders.
Yet, Hillary Clinton – for months and despite so many attacks – repeatedly refused to even say the words "radical Islam," until I challenged her yesterday to say the words or leave the race.
However, Hillary Clinton – who has been forced to say the words today after policies she supports have caused us so much damage – still has no clue what Radical Islam is, and won’t speak honestly about what it is.
She is in total denial, and her continuing reluctance to ever name the enemy broadcasts weakness across the world.
In fact, just a few weeks before the San Bernardino slaughter, Hillary Clinton explained her refusal to say the words Radical Islam. Here is what she said: "Muslims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with terrorism."
Hillary Clinton says the solution is to ban guns. They tried that in France, which has among the toughest gun laws in the world, and 130 were brutally murdered by Islamic terrorists in cold blood. Her plan is to disarm law-abiding Americans, abolishing the 2nd amendment, and leaving only the bad guys and terrorists with guns. She wants to take away Americans’ guns, then admit the very people who want to slaughter us.
I will be meeting with the NRA, which has given me their earliest endorsement in a Presidential race, to discuss how to ensure Americans have the means to protect themselves in this age of terror.
The bottom line is that Hillary supports the policies that bring the threat of Radical Islam into America, and allow it to grow overseas.
In fact, Hillary Clinton’s catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly more Radical Islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only our security but our way of life.
When it comes to Radical Islamic terrorism, ignorance is not bliss – it's deadly.
The Obama Administration, with the support of Hillary Clinton and others, has also damaged our security by restraining our intelligence-gathering and failing to support law enforcement. They have put political correctness above common sense, above your safety, and above all else.
I refuse to be politically correct.
I will do the right thing — I want to straighten things out and to Make America Great Again.
The days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon.
As President I will give our intelligence community, law enforcement and military the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks.
We need an intelligence-gathering system second to none. That includes better cooperation between state, local and federal officials – and with our allies.
I will have an Attorney General, a Director of National Intelligence, and a Secretary of Defense who will know how to fight the war on Radical Islamic Terrorism – and who will have the support they require to get the job done.
We also must ensure the American people are provided the information they need to understand the threat.
The Senate Subcommittee on Immigration has already identified hundreds of immigrants charged with terrorist activities inside the United States since September 11th.
Nearly a year ago, the Senate Subcommittee asked President Obama's Departments of Justice, State and Homeland Security to provide the immigration history of all terrorists inside the United States.
These Departments refused to comply.
President Obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all individuals implicated in terrorist activity of any kind since 9/11.
The public has a right to know how these people got here.
We have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with, or support, radical groups and beliefs.
We have to control the amount of future immigration into this country to prevent large pockets of radicalization from forming inside America.
Even a single individual can be devastating, just look at what happened in Orlando. Can you imagine large groups?
Truly, our President doesn't know what he is doing. He has failed us, and failed us badly, and under his leadership, this situation will not get any better  —  it will only get worse.
Each year, the United States permanently admits more than 100,000 immigrants from the Middle East, and many more from Muslim countries outside the Middle East. Our government has been admitting ever-growing numbers, year after year, without any effective plan for our security.
In fact, Clinton's State Department was in charge of the admissions process for people applying to enter from overseas.
Having learned nothing from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase admissions without a screening plan, including a 500% increase in Syrian refugees.
This could be a better, bigger version of the legendary Trojan Horse.
We can't let this happen.
Altogether, under the Clinton plan, you'd be admitting hundreds of thousands of refugees from the Middle East with no system to vet them, or to prevent the radicalization of their children.
The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why she believes immigration from these dangerous countries should be increased without any effective system to screen who we are bringing in.
The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why we should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian Americans.
The burden is also on Hillary Clinton to tell us how she will pay for it. Her plan will cost Americans hundreds of billions of dollars long-term.
Wouldn't this money be better spent on rebuilding America for our current population, including the many poor people already living here?
We have to stop the tremendous flow of Syrian refugees into the United States – we don't know who they are, they have no documentation, and we don't know what they're planning.
What I want is common sense. I want a mainstream immigration policy that promotes American values.
That is the choice I put before the American people: a mainstream immigration policy designed to benefit America, or Hillary Clinton's radical immigration policy designed to benefit politically-correct special interests.
We've got to get smart, and tough, and vigilant, and we've got to do it now, because later is too late.
The media talks about "homegrown," terrorism, but Islamic radicalism, and the networks that nurture it, are imports from overseas.
Yes, there are many radicalized people already inside our country as a result of the poor policies of the past. But the whole point is that it will be much, much easier to deal with our current problem if we don’t keep on bringing in people who add to the problem.
For instance, the controversial Mosque attended by the Boston Bombers had as its founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an assassination plot.
This shooter in Orlando was the child of an immigrant father who supported one of the most repressive regimes on Earth. Why would we admit people who support violent hatred?
Hillary Clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as she continues to support immigration policies that bring Islamic extremists to our country who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesn’t share their views.
She can’t have it both ways. She can’t claim to be supportive of these communities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who want to oppress them.
How does this kind of immigration make our life better? How does this kind of immigration make our country better?
Why does Hillary Clinton want to bring people here—in vast numbers—who reject our values?
Ask yourself, who is really the friend of women and the LGBT community, Donald Trump with his actions, or Hillary Clinton with her words? Clinton wants to allow Radical Islamic terrorists to pour into our country—they enslave women, and murder gays.
I don’t want them in our country.
Immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who doesn’t support our communities – all of our communities.
America has already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on earth, and we continue to admit millions more with no real checks or scrutiny.
Not surprisingly, wages for our workers haven’t budged in many years.
So whether it’s matter of national security, or financial security, we can’t afford to keep on going like this. We owe $19 trillion in debt, and no longer have options.
All our communities, from all backgrounds, are ready for some relief. This is not an act of offense against anyone; it is an act of defense.
I want us all to work together, including in partnership with our Muslim communities. But Muslim communities must cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the people who they know are bad – and they do know where they are.
I want to fix our schools, roads, bridges and job market. I want every American to succeed. Hillary Clinton wants to empty out the Treasury to bring people into the country that include individuals who preach hate against our own citizens.
I want to protect our citizens – all of our citizens.
The terrorist attack on the Pulse Night Club demands a full and complete investigation into every aspect of the assault.
In San Bernardino, as an example, people knew what was going on, but they used the excuse of racial profiling for not reporting it.
We need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends and associates.
We need to know if he was affiliated with any radical Mosques or radical activists and what, if any, is their immigration status.
We need to know if he travelled anywhere, and who he travelled with.
We need to make sure every single last person involved in this plan – including anyone who knew something but didn't tell us – is brought to justice.
If it can be proven that somebody had information about any attack, and did not give this information to authorities, they must serve prison time .
America must do more – much more – to protect its citizens, especially people who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or sexual orientations.
It also means we must change our foreign policy.
The decision to overthrow the regime in Libya, then pushing for the overthrow of the regime in Syria, among other things, without plans for the day after, have created space for ISIS to expand and grow.
These actions, along with our disastrous Iran deal, have also reduced our ability to work in partnership with our Muslim allies in the region.
That is why our new goal must be to defeat Islamic terrorism, not nation-building.
For instance, the last major NATO mission was Hillary Clinton's war in Libya. That mission helped unleash ISIS on a new continent.
I've said NATO needs to change its focus to stopping terrorism. Since I've raised that criticism, NATO has since announced a new initiative focused on just that.
America must unite the whole civilized world in the fight against Islamic terrorism, just like we did against communism in the Cold War.
We've tried it President Obama's way. He gave the world his apology tour, we got ISIS, and many other problems, in return.
I'd like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solidarity with the people of Orlando who have come under attack.
When I am President, I pledge to protect and defend all Americans who live inside of our borders. Wherever they come from, wherever they were born, all Americans living here and following our laws will be protected.
America will be a tolerant and open society.
America will also be a safe society.
We will protect our borders at home.
We will defeat ISIS overseas.
We will ensure every parent can raise their children in peace and safety.
We will make America rich again.
We will make America safe again.
We will make American Great Again.
Thank you.
...We’re doing really well. Iowa’s been amazing. It’s been amazing. We’re doing so well and I love this place and I’m back here all the time and I’m going to be here a lot in January.
You’re going to be so sick of me. You’ll probably say, "We can’t give – the caucus, just forget it. We can’t stand the guy any more."
No, you’re going to like me and we’re going to be back and we’re going to do a great job for you. Most importantly, we’re going to get to that office and we’re going to do the right thing. We’re going to do the right thing.
So, a few things. A lot – so much has happened.
You know, when we first came out, we were all talking together. And we were talking border security, which we’re just doing so great with the border security.
We’re going to build a wall. Mexico’s going to pay for the wall. We all know that. But we’re going to have security. And the drugs are going to stop and the people that are going to come into the country but they’re going to come into the country they’re going to be legal, they’re coming in legally, and that’s the way. That’s the way.
And it affects Iowa so much.
So we were talking about. So we were talking about that. We were talking about repealing Obamacare. Boom. It’s going to be repealed. It’s going to be replaced.
I don’t know if you’ve been seeing what’s happening but Obamacare is a total disaster. It’s dying of its own weight.
And by ’17, meaning he’ll be playing golf and I’ll be working very hard. But ’17 instead you’re not getting the people signed up. There’s been a lot of talk about it and a lot of stories about it.
Obamacare’s dead but we’ll terminate it quicker than that.
And we will come up with something that will be so good, so much better.
Premiums are going through the roof. Deductibles are so high that unless you’re close to death, you’ll never going to get to use. And even then I don’t think you’re going to get to use it really.
So, we’re going to take care of that.
And by the way, we have a lot of good people. We have ethanol. Nobody is really – we have the ethanol – where are the ethanol people? Right?
I was here a month ago and I met with them all and they do a fantastic job. I toured the plants and they do a fantastic job but it’s so important. And it’s another form of let’s stay away from OPEC and let’s stay away from that Middle East stuff. It’s so important...
Actually what I don’t understand because the one guy that’s doing pretty good with me in Iowa is Ted Cruz and he’s a nice guy. I mean, everything I say he agrees with me. No matter what I say.
I was going to do one really wild but he agrees.
But with the ethanol, really, he’s got to come a long way because he’s right now for the oil.
But I understand it. Oil pays him a lot of money. He’s got to be for oil, right? The oil companies give him a lot of money.
But I’m with you. I’m with everybody. Look, I’m self funding. I have no oil company. I have no special interest. I have no lobbyist that want me and you know, they’re representing countries that are ripping off the country, they’re representing companies that are ripping off our country.
All I do is I’m going to be working for you folks. We’re going to do this thing together. We’re going to make America so great again and maybe better than ever before. So important.
So when we first started, I talked about China how they’re ripping us and Japan and Mexico.
Mexico both at the border and in trade. They’re taking so many of our companies. Nabisco’s moving there with their big plant. Ford is moving there with a big plant. They took a big plant away from Tennessee – a great state – they took it away at the last moment.
I’m not going to let that stuff. We’re going to do what we have to do, okay?
But I talked about that...and I talk about it a lot. The fact is that about 2.5 weeks ago with Paris, I’m speaking a little bit differently now.
Believe me, I can take care of China in my back pocket. That’s easy for me. That’s what I do.
And we have all the cards. A lot of people don’t know. You know, these politicians they don’t understand we have the cards.
You know, with China, our people pay tax. They pay no tax. It’s not supposed to be that way. They call it a tariff because it sounds better. But we’ll take care of that. We’ll take care of all of that.
What happened is with Paris, there’s a different mindset.
And when the polls came out last week, my numbers went way up because people felt more secure with me.
Now, maybe it had to do – who knows why? Who knows?
But my poll numbers went up. And do you ever notice whenever there’s something that I do that’s proper but controversial, they’d say "Oh, now he’s gone. That’s it. That’s the end."
I won’t go over all of the different things because maybe you’ll change your minds.
But they’d say, "That’s it. It’s over."
And then they’d come in, "Sir, your poll number went up 9 points this week." I said, "They did?" Because I have to do what’s right. I have to do what’s right.
And you know what? If I don’t make it, I don’t make it.
I have a good life. We all hopefully have a good life. I have a great family, nice people, wonderful people. They love me. I think. I hope. I think. But I have a great family and I built a great business.
...There’s such spirit...There’s such spirit no matter where I go. You know, I go to Dallas. We have 20,000. 35,000 people in Mobile, Alabama. 20,000 people in Oklahoma. Wherever we go in Iowa, we have these crowds. You know this is supposed to be...for like a record.
It is big and yet it feels intimate. It feels good...
...So I changed a couple of weeks ago. When I saw Paris I changed. And a big, big part of what I’m doing now is safety and security and smartness and smartness.
Sort of interesting. You know, the slogan is "Make America Great Again" and I’m adding "Make America Great Again and Safe Again" because we don’t feel safe anymore.
And the problem we have now that we’ve never had to this extent is the power of weaponry. It’s the power. It’s the tremendous power.
You know, 100 years ago, I would have said "Let’s not go." I said "Don’t go there" anyway. And I said it strongly "Don’t go. You’re going to destabilize the Middle East."
But the fact is right now, we’re going to have to do things because we have some really, really sick degenerates.
And the press – look at all those cameras going all live, all – you know, nobody else has cameras like this. They can make a speech 100 times they make a speech, nobody cares. Look at this.
And don’t worry, they never pan the crowd. You know, they never; they have me. That’s why I’m walking around. I figured I’ll walk around maybe they’ll get the crowd. They never pan the crowd. I tell them "Pan the crowd", they never do.
...I had a crowd 7,000 people last week. More. 7,000 people and in a confined space. They had 3,000 people outside that couldn’t get in. My wife says, "Darling, the speech was excellent. Did you have many people there?" I said "What?" She said, "Well, they never leave your face." They keep it purposely. But I’ll tell you the cameras may be a little screwed up where you can’t move them, right?
But every time there’s a protester "Well, I’m protesting" and it can be in the back lefthand corner of the room, the cameras swoop over there. It’s true. It’s true. It’s true.
No, I used to think they couldn’t move. You know, maybe there’s something with the crazy computers.
You know, in the old days everything was better right? The car seats. You’d sit in your car and you want to move forward and back, you press a button. Bing, bing. Now, you have to open up things, press a computer, takes you 15 minutes.
Well, the same thing I figured with cameras. I didn’t think they moved. I figured they were fixed for certain reasons. And then I saw a protester and those cameras were bent in positions like you wouldn’t believe possible.
So, they’re very dishonest people. What can I say? Not all of them but most of them.
I’ll tell you, you have one of the most dishonest right here in your backyard. The Des Moines Register is the worst. They are the worst. The worst. No, they’re very dishonest.
You have some reporter named Jacobs. She is the worst. She will write – so – it’s such misrepresentation. And so I don’t care. I mean, who cares? So I’m saying it right in their backyard. They’re failing anyway. They probably won’t be in business in two years. I think they’re losing a fortune. I think.
You know, it’s funny. Every time the Des Moines Register does a poll, I always do badly.
...I’m only doing this so they don’t sue me but I don’t mind if they do. I hope they sue me because they don’t have enough money to sue me. That’s the good thing.
But I believe and I may be wrong – in fact, I’ll say I’m sure I’m wrong but it’s my opinion that they don’t do it properly because you know they poll like 300 or 400 people. I’ll explain it...You know, if they lose 20 people in the pocket. "Oh, Trump? Oh, forget that one. Forget that one."
Now, I don’t know that they do that. Do you do that, Des Moines Register?
But every time I have a Des Moines Register poll, I do poorly. I also do poorly with the Bloomberg polls. I don’t know why.
But we had a great poll come in – CNN last couple of days – where we’re leading I think by 13 points in Iowa. In Iowa.
And then we have another coming where we’re doing well.
But I think Des Moines Register has somebody says it’s coming out sometime. I’ll just tell you, watch – "Trump disappears!"
I think we’re going to do so well. I think we’re actually going to even do better. You know, we’re leading in most of the poll. We’re leading in every poll.
Except Iowa there was one poll – there was one poll, Monmouth – I’d never even heard Monmouth. What the hell is Monmouth? What is Monmouth? Explain it. I don’t like Monmouth. You know why I don’t like it? Because they always treat me badly also.
But I only like polls that treat me well.
But we’re doing so well. Nationwide, we’re leading every poll by tremendous. We just had one in Georgia – 44%. 44%. Think of that. That’s 44% with 15 people. I’d take 44% if we had three people. I don’t think I’d take it if we had two people but I think I’d take if we had three. But 44%.
CBS came out as you know, you probably saw that, New York Times two days ago and we’re at 35% to a small number. We’re killing everybody in every poll. Just one little outlier here.
...Again, I’m sure when Des Moines comes out it’ll be a negative because I don’t believe that poll.
But we are going to win. And I’ll tell you what. Honestly, Iowa is so important to me. I could say, "Oh, let’s not do" – I am an evangelical. I am a Christian. I’m a Presbyterian. I’m a Presbyterian. I love Billy Graham.
Franklin Graham came out with the most beautiful statements. Franklin Graham. He was so incredible. He came out – I don’t know if you all saw the statements he came out with about Trump...He was so incredible. Franklin Graham was amazing, the son of Billy Graham, who was, you know, there’s nobody, nobody that I’ve ever seen – Billy Graham was unbelievable. If anybody’s gone to his crusades, they were incredible.
But so I think we’re going to do – we’re doing really well with the evangelicals...
And by the way and again, I do like Ted Cruz but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba in all fairness. It’s true. Not a lot come out. But I like him nevertheless.
I think we’re going to do great and we are doing great with evangelicals. We’re doing great with the Tea Party, leading with the Tea Party.
And we’re doing fantastic with all the young and middle. We’re doing great with everybody.
And so it’s very important for me to win Iowa.
Now, I could put less pressure on myself and I could say, "Oh, I don’t care about Iowa. I don’t care." But I do care. I do care so much about it. That’s why we’re here all the time.
And then the lies happened. You know, when I was using Iowa, they lied so much. I said, "The people of Iowa can’t be that stupid or the people of the country can’t – ". I’m trying to make a point, right? So I said, "The people of the country can’t be that stupid." Well, they cut the "country" out so it’s referring to Iowa.
I love you people. Remember that. Remember that.
I was talking about something, and I won’t even mention what I’m talking about because the guy I’m talking about and was actually a very good guy.
But I will say this. We want to win Iowa so bad. Because if I win Iowa, I think we’d run the table. I really do. I think we’d run the table. We’d go right through.
Because we’re leading big in New Hampshire – every poll. Big. Big in New Hampshire. Christie got an endorsement from this crazy newspaper up there. It’s the weirdest deal I’ve ever seen.
And you know the paper that was in his state called up and said, "Are you sure about that? Nobody ever called us." They can’t believe it. And we can get into that but it’s irrelevant.
But we’re leading New Hampshire big. We’re leading in South Carolina like monstrous numbers. We’re leading...Nevada. We’re leading in Texas. We’re leading everywhere. We’re leading big in Florida.
Now, you have Rubio – nice guy, by the way. You have Rubio and he is a nice guy but you’ve got to vote. When people put you in a position to be a Senator, you’ve got to go and vote. You can’t be the number one person that doesn’t vote in the Senate. You’ve got to say, "Hey, I’m a young guy. I want to go and vote." You should stay there a little longer. He’s a good guy. Stay there, go in, vote, create a nice record.
But I don’t know. How’s he doing in Iowa? Not too good. Right? He’s not doing well. How’s Rubio doing? Not good.
I mean, it seems like a two-person race right now...and it’s an important race to me. So I just want to let you know it’s very important.
So with all of that, if we win Iowa, a lot of people say we’d just go through. I think we’ll win virtually every state in the Union and it’s over quickly. Over quickly.
...What about the Republican establishment? The establishment’s got a problem, you know. It’s sort of like the fighters. You know, the great champions. Sometimes they’ll go into the hometown of a guy they’re fighting and they’ll say, "You know, we’d never want to get a decision. We go for the knock-out. The knock-out is the knock-out." Because you get a lot of bad decisions. I know a lot about the world of sports, believe me, and they go into a hometown to fight and it’s a decision and they say, "Uh, we’re in a problem" and they’d lose the fight that they won. The only way they win the fight definitely – knock out.
So, if we win Iowa, I think we’re going to win everything after that. So I think it’s going to show how important Iowa is.
...I’ll pledge this to Iowa. Even if I lose, I’ll pledge it, okay? I don’t think I’ve ever said that in my life. If we go and win, Iowa’s staying right where it is in the chain. It’s not moving. You know, there’s a big move to move Iowa into a much further back position by the establishment. Folks, I win it’s not happening, okay? You’re staying right here because it’s great. It’s great.
...You’ve been paying into Social Security and Medicare, by the way. Let’s put them in. Because Medicare does work. With both, you have tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse. We’re going to take care of that. Okay?
But we’re not going to cut your Social Security and we’re not cutting your Medicare. We’re going to take jobs back from all these countries that are ripping us off. We’re going to become a wealthy country again. And we’re going to be able to save your Social Security.
...I can’t believe this number but I read it over – who is the man that told me the number – over 6 million people – I can’t believe it – are aged 112 and over are getting Social Security...But I heard it. I read it. A tremendous – like 6 million people are getting Social Security. They’re dead. Meaning somebody else is picking up...
...The press is going to have to check it because what do I know? But can you imagine, we have 6 million – now, we know there’s not 6 million, there may be one. But there’s not 6 million.
Anybody in this room 112 or over? Because if they are, I want to shake your hand.
But – so 6 million over 112 years old picking up Social Security and that’s the beginning. So there’s tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse.
What we’re going to do is we’re going to save Medicare. We’re going to save Social Security. We’re not going to raise the age or we’re not going to do all the things that everyone else is talking about doing. They’re all talking about doing it, and you don’t have to. We’re going to bring our jobs back. We’re going to make our economy incredible again.
My tax proposal, which is in, and a great detail in terms of policy and it’s gotten tremendous reviews from a lot of people, a lot of great groups.
But we are going to cut taxes tremendously for the middle class and for businesses because our middle class is being decimated.
And when that happens, you’re going to see an economy that takes off. We’re going to get rid of a lot of that debt, if not all of it. But we’re going to get rid of it – you know, we’re at $19 trillion going t $21 trillion right.
You know, if you go back eight or nine years, trillion wasn’t even a word anybody knew and now it’s like routine.
So we are going to save your Social Security without cuts. We’re going to bring the economy back. We’re going to make ourselves rich again.
A woman said to me in New Hampshire recently, she said, "Mr. Trump, I’m voting for you. I love you. But it’s very crude when you say you’re going to make our country rich again." I said, "I know it’s crude. It sounds bad. But many things I say are crude. It sounds bad. But we can’t make our country great again unless we make our country rich again. We can’t let everybody in the world rip us off.
...We just did a big interview with CNN just before this. And you know, Hillary – was Hillary missing today? What happened? She was two hours late. No, did you hear?
Now, I may be wrong. If I’m one minute off, they’ll call me because they love Hillary. They love her. You know why. I don’t know why. Why? I’m trying to figure it. No, I heard she was a couple of hours late. Everybody left. You know what happened? She was sleeping. I’m telling you. She couldn’t get out of bed. She was sleeping. She was sleeping. Was right.
...
Remember, we built China. The money they took out of country, we rebuilt China. You go there, they have bridges all over the – they have bridges like the George Washington Bridge. Maybe I shouldn’t mention that particular bridge. But like bigger like the George Washington Bridge. Only a few people got that one; that’s okay.
But they have bridges going up. We have rebuilt China. They’ve taken our jobs. They’ve taken our base. They’ve taken our manufacturing all over the place. They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken our money. Not going to happen anymore folks. Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen.
I know the great business people. We have the greatest business people in the world. Guys like Carl Icahn. He calls me, "Donald, I want to help. I want to help." The smartest people call. We’re not going to use the special interest guy – a donor.
We use donors to negotiate with China because he gave some guy like, you know, whoever it might be. Because again, I’m the only one that’s self-funding my campaign. Everybody else isn’t.
These guys – when these guys give money to politicians to a large extent they own those politicians. They will do whatever the hell the special interests and the donors want.
That’s not going to happen with me.
So, Social Security – we’re saving it. Medicare – we’re saving it. We’re going to make our country rich. Okay? Thank you, sweetheart.
...Yeah, it’s called the statute of limitations, right? And you know it’s a six-year year statute. Maybe five but it’s probably six. But it’s a six-year statute. Yeah, you have to look at it.
Look, Hillary Clinton – you know this story. It’s a crime. She committed a crime.
Now, perhaps – perhaps – somebody, you know, we have to have a fair Justice Department and perhaps...we’ll have some really good Attorney General that’s going to say "Well, you know".
Look, we want to be fair to everybody. Okay? Including Hillary Clinton. But she committed a crime in my opinion.
Now, she shouldn’t be allowed to run. She’s being protected absolutely. I have little doubt that they’re going to find anything. But they’ve already found it.
I mean, you watch television. You have all these big scholars, these lawyers, "Yes, she violated section so and so". Just one after another. I mean, actually violated many, many laws, not just like a little one here. Many laws.
You mentioned General Petraeus. His life was destroyed over 5% of what Hillary Clinton did. Over nothing.
So I think she’s going to be their nominee definitely. The only question is whether or not she’ll be allowed to run. She’s being protected by the Democrats. She’s being protected by the President. And that’s why – why do you think she’s going along with these insane policies of his? Okay? I mean, she goes along with everything.
I don’t even – honestly in all fairness to her, I don’t think she believes it. But I think she’s afraid he’s going to say, "Listen, I don’t like her anymore. Go take care of her. I’m going to get somebody else." I’m telling you.
So, the question is statute of limitations. It’s a five year statute of limitations. She’s got a problem. She’s got a problem. In one way, she’s running for her life because I know one thing, if she wins that’s the end of that. Right? But if she loses she could have a very serious problem.
...
...Well, I said right at the beginning. We’re going to build a wall that’s going to be a real wall. That’s going to be a real wall.
It’s not going to be – you see that ceiling? That ceiling is nothing compared to the wall. And we can build it and we can build it right. And it will be strong and powerful and as beautiful as a wall is going to look. It’s got to be beautiful because someday they’re going to name it the Trump Wall. I know that. It’s going to happen. Going to happen.
And it’s going to work. And walls do work.
You know, they wanted to build a wall here 20 years ago. You know they couldn’t get environmental impact statements. That’s just shows you.
China is building in the South China Sea massive military bases. Right? Why? They’re not supposed to. They have no respect for Obama or our country. They’re not supposed to be doing that. And you could get them to stop just by saying "We’re not doing business with you anymore." Their whole economy would – you don’t have to go to war. It’s economics. The whole country would collapse in two seconds. Believe me. We have such power and we don’t know it.
But they’re building massive – now, they had little islands. They put the biggest escavators, not Caterpillars. I think they’re using Komatsu from Japan...They have these massive escavators, and I said to a friend of mine who’s Chinese from China – very rich guy, very successful guy, paid me a fortune for an apartment so I happen to like him, okay? – I said jokingly "How long did it take them to do these massive islands they’re building right out of the sea? Boom, those shovels go in, take out everything. How long did it take you to get the environmental impact statements?" He laughed. He said, "What are you kidding me? Nothing." They say "We will build there." About two seconds later, you have escavators digging.
So we had a problem with environmental – look, I’ve won many environmental awards. I’m a big believer especially in clean air and clean water. I’m a big believer. Just so you know. Big. And I’ve gotten so many awards for the environment. So I understand the environment; I’ve won many, many awards.
But when you look at how we’re impinged and hurt. But the wall was stopped because they couldn’t get an environmental impact statement among other things. They couldn’t get an environmental impact statement.
Now, there was probably a snail or a turtle or a snake or something. You were ruining the habitat of a rattlesnake. I don’t know. But they actually had people – a lot of people – people that now would be against it but they wanted to build a wall and years ago they couldn’t get it done.
...You know, I said bomb the oil, right? I’ve been saying that for three years. Now finally they started – after Paris they started bombing the oil. I’ve been saying it for years.
You know one of the reasons we didn’t bomb the oil? Obama didn’t want to hurt the environment. Now, I heard that and I thought somebody was kidding. I thought a comedian was saying it. It turned out to be true. He didn’t want the flames and everything going into the atmosphere. This is the way we fight today.
I’m telling you, folks, we’re being led by stupid people. We’re being led by stupid people.
I’ve been saying not really bomb – I’ve been saying take the oil. I didn’t want to go into Iraq. But once we were there, I said "Look, we shouldn’t have been there. But then when we left, we left the wrong way."
First of all, we have a president who told them a date. "We’re going to leave on such and such a date." What was it like 18 months later? So the enemy all of sudden said, "Wow", ‘cause don’t believe it. They don’t want to be killed. Okay? They don’t want to be killed. So the enemy said "They’re going to leave on a certain date?" So they pulled back, the date comes, and now you see what happened. It’s a disaster and Iran is taking over Iraq.
So anyway, I couldn’t believe it when they said that. When we said to our 50 soldiers two weeks ago and our president gets up and announces "We are sending 50 soldiers."
Okay, first of all, he thinks it’s a good press announcement. It’s not. 50 soldiers – that’s not a lot even though they’re the elite. But those 50 soldiers because of that announcement have a target on their heart. They have a target on their heart.
Why does he have to say that for? Why can’t he let 50 soldiers go there quietly, stealth, stealth? Why can’t he just do that? Why can’t he do that?
Those 50 soldiers are in grave danger today because of that, and they probably don’t even know that but everybody is looking for them and that’s the way it is.
We have people that don’t know what they’re doing.
We used to have General MacArthur – Douglas MacArthur – General George Patton. I mean, these were real people. These were real people.
Today, we have generals that go on talk shows...I saw a general the other day on a talk show. He said – and this was serious and he’s a good man. They’re good men. But you’ve got to lead these men. Even the generals have to have some power over them. He said, "We are in the worst shape in terms of preparedness that we’ve been in in decades." And this is the time when we have to be in the best shape because the world wants to kill us.
And he said we are in the worst shape we’ve been in many, many decades.
Now, number one, he shouldn’t be saying that because you’re telling the enemy that and the enemy feels embolden when they hear that. Right? We shouldn’t be saying it. We shouldn’t be saying it.
I mean, even if it’s true, you don’t say it. You get it fixed and you do the opposite.
One thing I’m going to do I’ll tell you, I’m going to build our military so big and so strong and so powerful – so powerful that nobody is going to mess with us. Nobody is going to mess with us.
You know in many ways, it’s the cheapest thing you can do. Everyone is toying with us right now. It’s the cheapest thing you can do. The absolute cheapest thing you can do.
...I’m a big Second Amendment person by the way.
...My sons are really great marksmen. They’re big believers. And I’m a member of the NRA but I’m not such a good shot. But they’re great shots so it’s one of those things.
But if you think about that question. So you know there’s tremendous pressure to get rid of the guns, get rid of the magazines, no bullets. How about the one where they have three bullets in every magazine? ...So the people will put three bullets in. I don’t think the bad guys are going to say, "Well, I don’t want to break the law. I’m going to go kill people today but I’m going to put three bullets in." Right?
These people – and you know I have arguments with them all the time and I’m a practical guy. Honestly, if I didn’t believe this, I couldn’t say it.
So in France or in California, I have a permission to carry, which is a big thing in New York. It’s very hard to get. I have a license to carry.
But in France or in California or in all these places where we see the shooters, right, if instead of having like in France hundreds of people in that room – Paris has the toughest gun laws in the world. France has the toughest gun laws in the world. Nobody has guns. Except the bad guys.
So they walk in with the worst, the toughest, the best weaponry you could have and they said, "Over here – boom. Over here – boom." So they killed 128 but many more are dying right now. They’re in terrible shape in the hospitals. They just wipe the place out and they could’ve stayed there for longer. They wiped it out.
Then you had those two sleaze bags from California. The married couple. I saw the press – "The young married couple that did the shooting". They’re not a young married couple. They’re the worst. They’re sleaze.
...They say "The young married couple". That’s no young married couple.
So they walk into a place and they killed 14 people and others are going to be dying probably because of a lot of other wounded people.
But if somebody had guns in there – nobody had a gun...How would you have done if you had a gun? Would you have been firing back a little bit? They’d been in trouble. Right? They would have been in trouble. Believe me. That guy.
So, you know, I went to like an Ivy League college and I have a lot of friends that are against guns and I argue with them. I talk to them. I said, "Okay, we’re in Paris. You have all these places and there’s hundreds of people. Guys walk in with guns and you have no gun. Don’t you think they would’ve been better if they had?" They can’t – they lose the argument but they never change their mind.
So we have to fight for the Second Amendment. It’s so simple. It’s so simple.
And believe me, believe me, they want to take those guns away and you always know that the bad ones are going to have the guns and they’re going to have them more so than ever before. So we’re going to protect the Second Amendment if I’m president. That I can tell you.
And by the way, we’re going to be saying Merry Christmas again. Do you ever notice?
...And by the way, Merry Christmas everybody. Merry Christmas. And happy holiday.
Frankly, I have a lot of friends that aren’t Christian. They like Christmas. Everybody likes Christmas. It’s politically incorrect to say Merry Christmas. But when I’m president, Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays, enjoy yourselves, don’t eat too much turkey. Right?
Okay, so we’re going to say Merry Christmas again folks. We’re going to bring that spirit back.
...I really do. I like Ted Cruz a lot. And he’s doing well. I’m doing well. I mean, it’s not a contest between the two of us, just so we understand. We have to make that – but I do like him.
And I would say that we would certainly have things in mind for Ted, to be honest with you.
I mean, he’s somebody that I can certainly see that because I like him, he likes me. He actually put out a tweet tonight. He said "Donald Trump is" – I think he used the word – "terrific". That’s a nice word. I mean, whoever hears that?
I can tell you other candidates are not exactly saying that about me. Right?
...
...So the Super PACs are horrible and I had many set up for me by people I didn’t know. I mean, I’d see them on television talking about – somebody named one "The Art of the Deal PAC". Two young guys. They look good. I mean, I don’t know.
But then I got to be, you know, started going around and I see the corruption with these Super PACs, with the stuff towards money. People that put the money in are dealing with the candidates. The whole thing is wrong.
And I see it. I mean, Bush has $125 million. Think of it. $125 million. By the way, if he had $2 billion it wouldn’t make any difference. Okay?
But Bush has $125 million. And honestly, he’s a nice person. He is. I don’t want to do that but he’s a very nice person. But it’s $125 million. And you’d say to yourself, "People give $2 million, $5 million, $7 million. You know what’s happening."
But some of the Super PACs are running campaigns. They’re actually running the campaign.
Another thing and it’s sort of interesting, one of the Super PACs I believe has $6 million. Of the $6 million – this was reported on the front page of the Los Angeles Times – one of the candidates who’s a nice person so I’m not going to mention the name. You know, when I like people I like them. I’m a very loyal person.
Of the $6 million after all of the bloodsuckers took their cuts, the fundraisers – can you believe this? – they had $140,000 left for the campaign. That’s better than being a real estate broker. I’d rather do that than sell houses. $140,000 left. That was in the newspaper. I don’t know. I think I believe it.
But I’ve seen it. I saw it with the Romney campaign. Guys made tens of millions of dollars raising money for Romney. I said what the hell is this? I mean, you give money and they get a cut.
Look, our laws are so corrupt. Our campaign finance laws are so totally corrupt. It’s so horrible. So horrible.
And I don’t necessarily want to stop people from giving because I think that’s a good thing but you have to get away from these PACs.
What you have to have is people have to know who it is. So you have to open up the process. Let people know. If somebody wants to give $1 million, you give $1 million but everybody has to know that so and so gave $1 million because that puts a little pressure on guys like Brad who raises hundreds of millions. Puts a little pressure.
But the concept of the PAC is no good. It’s no good. It’s a very dangerous, terrible thing. So we will change our laws because you really have no choice. It’s so out of control. It’s so terrible.
But the papers that are in this room tonight, they should look at this. There’s so little money left over for the candidates, it’s one of the reasons why I’m so happy I’m doing my own.
We actually sent legal letters to either nine or 11 PACs. The Trump PAC, the Trump PAC, the this PAC. First of all, I’m sure that out of some of them they stole the money. Some guy has no money. He sets up a Trump something PAC. Nothing to do with me. Sets it up. All of a sudden he’s got $2 million sitting there. Right? People send in money. And that guy has no money. How much of that money do you think he’s going to use to do what he’s supposed to be doing? That’s common sense. So maybe all of it but I doubt it.
So we sent legal notices to every one that we could find. We don’t want their money. We said "Don’t do it. We don’t want it. And we want ideally to give the money back to the people that gave it to you."
But the Super PAC concept is corrupt. It’s terrible and it should be ended. And we’re going to go to new campaign finance laws that are going to be terrific. Okay? Thank you.
...Well, look he’s from Texas. To the best of my knowledge, there’s a lot of oil in Texas. Right? So you know, he gets a lot of money from the oil companies and he’s totally against ethanol and everything else you’re talking about.
And I’m not. I’m totally in favor.
And you know, it’s a big industry here. It’s a big industry.
You know, if that industry is upset, Iowa’s got problems.
I was amazed. I was here three weeks ago with the group...They were such amazing people...And I learned so much about it. I was in favor of it even before...
...Beyond even the fuel capacities, which we want to create as much as we can, tremendous numbers of jobs in Iowa. And I said to myself, if Ted Cruz is against ethanol, how does he win in Iowa? Because that’s very anti-Iowa. I don’t know how he wins in Iowa. I don’t know.
No, but I’m totally for it. Okay? Thank you.
...I was a member of the establishment six months ago. I gave $350,000 to the RGA. That’s the Republican Governors Association. I gave tremendous amounts of money away. I was like the fair haired boy.
Once I said I’m running, they said "What? You’re not supposed to run."
And then what happened – I ran against all these Senators and Governors. And everyone said "Well, I don’t know." My wife said "If you run, you’re going to win" because she understands that I like people – I love people and people love me. And she said "You will run but you actually have to go and run. You have to announce you’re running because nobody’s going to believe you’re running."
And so I didn’t want to announce because I didn’t want to like announce and things didn’t work out and I’m like some of these guys where they’re zero. Many of them zero.
And so finally I said, "Look, let’s – we’re going to do it. We have to do it."
Just too many things that I watch on television with our president and the decisions that are made – Bergdahl – where we get Bergdahl and they get five killers. We get this horrible, dirty rotten spy – horrible traitor. We get this horrible, terrible traitor and they get five killers that they’ve wanted for nine years – the worst killers – and they’re all back on the battlefield.
You know, so many decisions. The Iran deal. The Iran deal. How bad is that? They self-inspect. "Okay, good. We’re not building. We promise we’re not building nuclear weapons." "Oh, okay. That’s okay."
And we give them $150 billion and we don’t even get our prisoners back. The whole thing is crazy. So I saw this. And I said to my wife, "Hey, I don’t know if I’ll do well or not. Who the hell knows?"
And it’s a risky thing. And I’ve always heard if you’re a very successful person you can’t run for office, especially for president, and I see it all the time. And the people go after me. I don’t even care at this point. I said, "I have to do it. Now, we’re going to have to do it."
And I look at it last time with Romney and I didn’t do it and I probably should have because he let us down. I mean, look, he let us down.
That was an election – we had a failed president. Four years ago he was a failed president, just as bad as he is now. It’s true. And Romney let us down. That last month – it was like he wasn’t even campaigning.
I said, "Why aren’t you on Jay Leno? Why aren’t you on David Letterman? Why aren’t you doing it?" And he just didn’t do it. So he lost the election.
So I backed McCain, he lost. I backed Romney, he lost. This time I said I’m doing it myself, okay? We’re going to win. We’re going to win.
But there is an establishment out there. It’s a real establishment. Real people. And they’re people that are used to having their little puppets all over the place. And they’re people that are used to giving donations and having control.
And they’re people that, you know, look when they call me I’ll treat them with respect but I’m not going to be doing bad things if it’s bad for the country. I’m not going to let Ford build a plant in Mexico if I can keep it in Michigan.
And I’m not going to let the car companies and Nabisco and all these people and all these companies – I’m all for free trade. I think it’s great. I’m for it. But it’s got to be smart trade. I’m not going to let them move to Mexico and then sell stuff over the border with no tax, no nothing so we lose our jobs, we lose our factories, they go over here, they make it, we let them come through. How does that help us, folks? I went to the best business school in the world. Believe me, it doesn’t help us. Okay? Trust me.
And we’re not going to make deals like that anymore. We can’t. We owe $19 trillion. We can’t.
So the establishment is not ever probably – look, you know what? In the end, if this country starts humming even the establishment they’ll be saying "Okay, it’s a good thing" because they’ll be beneficiaries also.
But we do have a real establishment and they’ve never seen this happen before.
A writer called up and he said recently – I told this story. I mean, one of the top journalists to my way of thinking certainly in the country and beyond. And he said, "Mr. Trump, how does it feel?" I said, "How does what feel?" "How does it feel? What you’ve done has never, ever been done before?" I said, "What have I done?" "You’ve dominated the Summer of Trump." Now they call it the Autumn of Trump.
Hopefully, they’re going to call it the Spring of Trump and I want the next Autumn of Trump.
But I said to the writer, "I don’t know what you’re talking about. I haven’t done anything ‘cause frankly if I don’t win I consider this to be a total waste of time." I’ll be honest with you. As much as I like being with you tonight. Because we won’t be able to do anything.
He said, "No, no. You’ve won even if you don’t win. You’ve won already." I said, "No, you’re wrong. If I don’t win, I have wasted my time."
So you know, the point is that the establishment can’t believe it because they’ve never seen it happen before.
...I was on the cover of Time Magazine four or five weeks ago and Time Magazine was going to pick the Person of the Year. Everybody – even my enemies – said "Trump is going to win." I said, "I won’t win." They said, "Why?" "I won’t win. Just like I should have gotten the Emmy for The Apprentice for the first three years. I was nominated. I should have." And I said, "I’ll never win." I told everybody I’ll never win because I’m not Hollywood establishment.
And with Time Magazine, I said – Bill O’Reilly, who’s a great guy, did an editorial at the end of his show two days ago saying nobody has done more than Trump, he should have won.
Now, I’m not saying I should have – yeah, I probably should have in all fairness – but he said "Nobody’s done more" – you know, taking over – what we’ve done has been amazing – all of us together not just me. It’s all of us. It’s all of us. From Dallas and Mobile and Oklahoma. All of us. Because the spirit.
...Well, Merkel got it. Now, Merkel, what did she do? She’s destroyed – I mean, she’s in the process of destroying Germany with the migration.
We have to help the people with the migration. We have to create a safe zone some place in Syria. But I don’t want them coming into this country. I don’t want them because we don’t know who they are. We don’t know who they are. Them with their printing press that now do the forged passports. Okay? You heard about that. So we don’t know.
The bottom line on that – it’s such an interesting question. You’ll know in about a month or two whether or not the establishment has treated me fairly.
But the only thing I can say is this: If I win Iowa, I think it’s over. I said before. Because I think if I win Iowa, New Hampshire is amazing. People are amazing. You would love the people. They would love you. You’d love everybody. The whole country is in love...I call it the noisy majority. It’s no longer a silent majority. It’s the noisy majority.
But if we win like I think we’re going to win because we have such a big league, honestly, it’s not going to matter. They can’t do anything. I don’t care about the establishment. They can’t do anything.
You know, the only way they can do is if I’m a little bit short, if I’m two votes short I have a problem because I’ll have to go into that convention, I’m dealing with all these blood sucker politicians and they’ll make their deals and they’ll have all their money guys around and they’ll be in the backroom making deals.
But if I get the number of delegates, there’s not a thing they can do. And I’ll end up doing fine with the establishment...
...I’m such a believer in education.
You know, I had an uncle who was a professor at MIT who was a brilliant guy...In fact, I just retweeted an article about him today. You’ve got to read it. Okay? RealDonaldTrump. You have to read it.
When I see somebody like Jeb – no I’ll tell you one thing I respect. He didn’t change his views. He knew he was getting killed on this issue and he didn’t change. And I respect that to a certain extent. But it’s so wrong.
Common Core is a total disaster. We have people – bureaucrats in Washington – telling you how your child should be educated in Iowa and New Hampshire and all of the different places that we go to. It’s ridiculous.
And I go around and I’ve seen the principals. I’ve seen so many students and teachers and professors and principals, and I’ve seen some of the people and the love – even in Iowa at a school – I’ve seen some of the love these parents give to those schools. This is real love. These are smart people. And these are people that aren’t working for a paycheck. These are incredible people...
Remember this: Our educational system is a mess. We spend more money per pupil as a government than any other country in the world and we’re in 28th place. And I mean like double what anybody else pays.
So I want to bring education back to the local areas. You’re going to have parents and you’re going to have unbelievably talented people and they love their kids and they want their kids to be well-educated because it’s so important. And you’re going to be very happy with it. Okay? Thank you. Thank you.
...You people do it. We’re backing you 100%...We are backing you 100%. You’re doing a phenomenal job. There should be more people like you in this country.
You know, the whole grid is a disaster. Right? The whole country. The infrastructure of our country is falling apart.
And nobody can build like me. It’s what I do. I build. I build.
I’m building on – as you know – Pennsylvania Avenue a big tremendous hotel that I got from the government of the United States. Can you believe it? During the Obama administration a couple of years ago.
But we had the best plan. The GSA is terrific. They’re very good. Actually, they’re very talented people.
We’re under-budget and ahead of schedule. That’s what we do.
When you see these things where they’re building a bridge and it’s going to cost, you know, $1 billion and it costs $12 billion. How about when they build a hospital and it costs $3 billion?
And I look at it – I’m very good – I can look at a building and tell you how much it’s going to cost.
I say "$250 million." "No, sir, $3 billion." $3 billion? Think somebody got rich on that one?
So we’re going to stop all this stuff. We’re going to make our country so strong and so wonderful. And we all love it anyways. We love it.
But it’s so sad to see what’s happening. It’s so sad. And we’re going to change it around.
...We have such a problem. And the biggest problem I have, you know, it relates to education and the hardest thing you get is when you go around and you’d see students and so many students come out to hear us and they always want to talk about the loans – they have student loans – and they’re going through nice colleges, they’re good students, they work hard, they could be really top in their class and they get out and they say, "Mr. Trump, we have no jobs. We can’t get jobs."
So they’re borrowed up to the hilt and they can’t get jobs.
We’re going to bring our jobs back from China. We’re going to bring our jobs back from all these places overseas that have stolen our jobs.
We’re going to bring our jobs back from South America. We’re bringing them back from Mexico. We’re going to have jobs again. Believe me. We’re going to be manufacturers again.
We’re going to start making Apple computers in this country. What the hell good does it do to make them in China? I want to make them in this country and we have the ability to do it.
So, we’re going to bring our jobs back. Okay?
Wow! Thank you very much.
Hello.
I’d like to begin by thanking the people of Montana, South Dakota, New Mexico, New Jersey, and California. We had some big, big days and we have some big numbers coming in. Very big numbers.
I’m truly honored by your support.
Together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible and you know what that is. We’re only getting started and it’s going to be beautiful. Remember that.
Tonight, we close one chapter in history and we begin another. Our campaign received more primary votes than any GOP campaign in history. No matter who it is, no matter who they are, we received more votes.
This is a great feeling. That’s a great feeling.
This is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed real change, not Obama change, but real change is possible.
You’ve given me the honor to lead the Republican Party to victory this fall.
We’re going to do it. We’re going to do it, folks. We’re going to do it.
I understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and I will never, ever let you down. Too much work, too many people, blood, sweat, and tears. I’m never going to let you down.
I will make you proud of your party and our movement, and that’s what it is – it’s a movement.
Now, recent polls have shown that I’m beating Hillary Clinton and with all of her many problems and the tremendous mistakes that she’s made and she has made tremendous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially.
To everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you. I want to thank you very, very much.
To those who voted for someone else in either party, I will work hard to earn your support and I will work very hard to earn that support.
To all of those Bernie Sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms.
And by the way, the terrible trade deals that Bernie was so vehemently against – and he’s right on that – will be taken care of far better than anyone ever thought possible. And that’s what I do.
We are going to have fantastic trade deals. We’re going to start making money and bringing in jobs.
Now, I know some people say I’m too much of a fighter. My preference is always peace, however. And I’ve shown that. I’ve shown that for a long time.
I’ve built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties involved – always.
My goal is always again to bring people together. But I’m forced to fight for something I really care about, I will never, ever back down and our country will never, ever back down.
I’ve fought for my family. I’ve fought for my business. I’ve fought for my employees. And now I’m going to fight for you – the American people – like nobody has ever fought before.
And I’m not a politician fighting. I’m me. You’re going to see some real good things happen.
Just remember this: I’m going to be your champion. I’m going to be America’s champion.
Because, you see, this election isn’t about Republican or Democrat. It’s about who runs this country – the special interests or the people – and I mean the American people.
Every election year politicians promised change. Obama promised change and it didn’t work out too well. And every year, they failed to deliver.
Why would politicians want to change a system that’s totally rigged in order to keep them in power? That’s what they’re doing, folks.
Why would politicians want to change a system that’s made them and their friends very, very wealthy?
I beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming support – the only way you could have done it – landslides all over the country with every demographic, on track to win 37 primary/caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very talented people.
After years of disappointment, there’s one thing we all have learned – we can’t fix the rigged system by relying on very – and I mean this so, so strongly – on the very people who rigged it. And they rigged it and do not ever think anything differently.
We can’t solve our problems by counting on the politicians who created our problems.
The Clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form for themselves.
They’ve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, selling favors, selling government contracts, and I mean hundreds of millions of dollars.
Secretary Clinton even did all of the work on a totally illegal private server. Something that how she’s getting away with this folks nobody understands. Designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security of the entire country at risk, and a president in a corrupt system is totally protecting her. Not right.
I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week, and we’re going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons. I think you’re going to find it very informative and very, very interesting.
I wonder if the press would want to attend. Who knows?
Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into a private hedge fund. The Russians, the Saudis, the Chinese all gave money to Bill and Hillary and got favorable treatment in return.
It’s a sad day in America when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence in our own country than our great citizens.
I didn’t need to do this. It’s not easy. Believe me. I didn’t need to do it. But I felt I had to give back to our wonderful country, which has been so good to me and to my family.
I’ve traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in people’s lives.
I’ve visited communities in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Indiana, and Ohio whose manufacturing jobs – they literally these jobs have virtually disappeared. An embarrassment to our country and it’s horrible.
I’ve embraced the victims of illegal immigration – moms and dads who have had to bury their own children because of people that shouldn’t have been in the country. Remember it, folks. Remember it.
I’ve visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools.
I’ve seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges, and I’ve compared them to other countries where we see facilities so far superior to ours. It’s really not to be believed. Hard to imagine what’s happened to our country.
America is getting taken apart piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly auctioned off to the highest bidder.
We’re broke. We’re broke. We owe $19 trillion. Going quickly to $21 trillion.
Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our schools are failing. Crime is rising. People are scared.
The last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the White House or an extension of the Obama disaster.
What a crowd. What a crowd. Thank you all very much. We love our country. We love our country.
But we can turn this all around. We’re going to do it by putting America first.
That commitment is the foundation for change that’s been missing and it’s been missing for a long time.
It’s important to understand what America First means.
It means on foreign policy, we will never enter into any conflict unless it makes us safer as a nation. It has to make us safer as a nation.
This is the opposite of Hillary’s foreign policy, which invaded Libya, destabilized Iraq, unleashed ISIS and threw Syria into chaos and created the mass migration, which is wrecking havoc all over the world and while putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the Middle East. And they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks, we have made them that way.
Better hope I’m president.
On trade, America First means the American worker will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition – what’s happening here is absolutely a disgrace.
No PPP. You’re right about that. So and you mean no PP.
We are going – and remember this – we are only going to have great trade deals. Okay? We are only going to have that.
We’re not going to approve as somebody just said the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which is a disaster – a disaster – for our country. Almost as bad as NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton, which has just stripped our country of our factories and our manufacturing and moved them to other places and in particular Mexico.
If it’s not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it. It’s got to be great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here because believe me we are all suffering and we’re suffering big league and it’s getting worse.
On energy policy, America First means opening up America’s great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers, including our wonderful and hardworking miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this administration.
On economic policy, America First means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the United States, substantially lowering taxes for middle class Americans and businesses. Likewise, regulation which is strangling our economy which would be brought down from its present insane level, we will make it very, very good for our companies, for our small businesses, and for people that want to survive and do well in our country.
On immigration policy, America First means protecting the jobs, wages, and security of American workers. Whether first or tenth generation, no matter who you are, we’re going to protect your job because let me tell you, our jobs are being stripped from our country like we’re babies.
The beauty of America First is that it brings us all together. Every American worker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections and rights and privileges. It’s got to be that way.
Now, the people in charge say things can’t change. I’m here today to tell you that we have to change. We have no choice. We have to change.
We’re going to put America back to work. We’re going to make our own products. We’re going to put America back to work.
We’re going to rebuild our inner cities, which are absolutely a shame and so sad, going to take care of our African-American people that have been mistreated for so long.
We’re going to make you and your families safe, secure, and prosperous. Prosperous again.
Together, we will put the American people first again. First again.
We will make our communities wealthy. We will make our cities safe again. We will make our country strong again.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will make America great again! Remember. Thank you!
Thank you! Thank you very much everybody!
Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. This has been a great period of time. It’s been really amazing.
We’ve gotten the nomination. We’re going to have an incredible period in Cleveland. We look forward to it.
We’ve started working already on the convention.
And LeBron, good luck in the series because we’re going to have the series, which of course the longer it goes the less time we have but that’s okay. And it’s going to be very interesting to see what happens.
But as you know, they’re playing the basketball championships partially in that arena so I think it will be very exciting. It’ll add to the excitement in Cleveland and that’s good. That’s what we want because it’s going to be an exciting period of time.
We have – we’ve done some awfully good work. I was just informed...that we’ve got more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican primaries and we still have I guess six or seven locations to go, states to go.
And in the history, think of it, in the history of this great party, we’ve gotten substantially more votes than anybody else by millions – by many millions more – than anybody who’s ever run.
So that’s a great. You know, when you think Dwight Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan and everybody, we have the most votes by far. So that’s something to me that’s very exciting.
And overall, it’s just been a very exciting process. I think we’re going to do very well.
We have no idea what’s going to happen on the Democrat’s side but they’re certainly having difficulty. I don’t like to see people having difficulty. But if anybody has to have it, let it be them.
And I think it’s going to be very interesting.
I’m very proud to say that we’ve gotten the most votes and also if you look at the overall primary the amount of votes cast, that’s also a record. So we’ve broken a lot of records in terms of the voters.
Our polling has come out and the polls are doing very well as you know. We’re pretty much even and in some cases ahead of Hillary. And I think we’re going to have a very, very successful number of months. And I think it will all culminate in November and we’re going to make America great. Okay?
So that’s the way it is...
I’m glad you asked the question because I have to tell you I have raised a tremendous amount of money for the vets – almost $6 million. And more money is going to come in I believe over the next little while too.
But I’ve raised almost $6 million. All of the money has been paid out and I’m going to give it to you in just a second.
In fact, I brought a list just in case that question was asked.
But the money has been paid out.
I have been thanked by so many veterans’ groups throughout the United States.
One gentleman called me up recently crying that out of a blue he got a check for $100,000. I have been thanked by so many groups – great veterans’ groups.
And by the way, outside you have a few people picketing. They’re sent there by Hillary Clinton and they’re picketing that the money wasn’t sent. The money has all been sent.
I wanted to keep it private. If we could, I wanted to keep it private because I don’t think it’s anybody’s business if I want to send money to the vets.
But I have to say this. I raised close to $6 million. It’ll probably be over that amount when it’s all said and done. But as of this moment, it’s $5.6 million.
When this started, it started with a speech in Iowa when I said let’s raise some money for the vets and it went up from $1 million to $2 million to $3 million. And it now ends up to be almost $6 million and again I think we can even do better than that.
But I will say that the press should be ashamed of themselves.
And behalf of the vets, the press should be ashamed of themselves. They are calling me. They are furious because I sent people checks of a lot of money.
We’re going to give you the names right now, which is what you want.
And instead of being like "Thank you very much, Mr. Trump" or "Trump did a good job", everyone said, "Who got it? Who got it? Who got it?" And you make me look very bad.
I have never received such bad publicity for doing such a good job.
So I will give the names because that’s what you want. Right?
Okay. Are you ready?
I brought them here. It takes – because you have to vet each company. You know, much of this money was paid out fairly early.
But you have to vet all of these different groups because these are many different groups. You have to go through a process. When you send checks for hundreds of thousands of dollars to people and to companies and to groups that you’ve never heard of – charitable organizations. You have to vet it. You send people out. You do a lot of work.
Now, most of the money went out quite a while ago. Some of it went out more recently. But all of this has gone out and I’ll give you the names.
Are you ready? Do you have your pad?
And again, I really think the press – look, the media, you know my opinion of the media. It’s very low. I think the media is frankly made up of people that, in many cases, not in all cases, are not good people. But I think this is an example.
And I just on behalf of all of the folks that have worked hard on this and all of the people that have made contributions, including myself; I gave $1 million, but I just want to tell you that there are so many people that are so thankful for what we did.
One other thing that’s important to know. Zero dollars have been taken out for administration.
You know, when you go to a lot of these different groups, in this case, zero dollars have been taken out for administration. So a lot of these companies that make a lot of money doing the administration stuff. So no money – it costs zero dollars to accumulate all of this money. Okay?
So you have 22 Kill and that’s $200,000.
And you can call these people. That was another thing. A lot of the money when it was sent out, different people would call. I could tell you, I’m not going to mention anybody specifically, but there were a couple of people that were really disgusting. They’d call and these vet groups they don’t get a lot of calls from the press. And maybe some of them would keep quiet or they didn’t know or they didn’t want to talk to the press or they didn’t feel comfortable.
So if they didn’t say they got the money, which they all did, 100% got the money. All certified checks. If anyone wants to see the certified checks.
But rather than say why don’t you – could I see a certified check? They said "Well, they didn’t say they got the money." They all got the money.
But they’re not people that always talk to the press. Many of them do talk to the press. Many of them have – I guess you found $2 million or $2.5 million where they talked.
Well, the number is $5.6 million and it’s going to possibly go above that because I believe some other people are coming in.
Ready?
22Kill got $200,000.
Now, these are checks that have been delivered, that have been cashed, that are now being used to help the vets.
Achilles International – great organization – $200,000. Much of this money was paid a long time ago.
American Hero Adventures – $100,000.
Americans for Equal Living – $100,000.
America’s Vetdogs – The Veterans’ K-9 Corps Inc. – $75,000.
AMVETS – $75,000.
Just so you understand. When I didn’t do the Fox debate...because I didn’t think they treated me right but actually they’ve been extremely fair over the last three or four months, I have to say that about Fox. But when I didn’t do that one event, the debate, I gave a speech. I didn’t have to do this with the money for the vets but I decided to because I thought it would be a good idea.
And I had some very generous people – Carl Icahn gave $500,000. Phil Ruffin gave $1 million...Ike Perlmutter gave $1 million. We raised a lot of money. And I didn’t have to do that. It would have been easier just to give the speech.
And the problem with the press what they do is they convince people like me not to do it, not to give money to different things because it’s a lot easier actually that way.
And I believe we’re going to have some more coming in. Some friends of mine, some more coming in. And that adds up to $5,600,000 total and we’re going to have some more coming in.
Now, every one of those checks have been passed other than the one check which is being held subject to they’re getting a final approval from the government. But every one of those has been passed.
This is my check for $1 million.
We have many letters from the different groups thanking us very much for the money and they didn’t ask – I didn’t ask people to be here today. I could have asked every one of the group unlike Hillary who asks people to stand outside and say "Donald Trump didn’t give the money."
Nobody gave this kind of money.
So I gave $5,600,000. More is coming in. Probably tops the $6 million number.
I never thought we were going to raise $1 million when we started. And we end up doing almost $6 million.
I have to tell you the press is so dishonest and so unfair.
A lot of the people behind me and some of the people over here helped in vetting the various requests for money. And I just want to thank all of those people.
I wasn’t too involved in picking the organizations other than to the Marine Law Enforcement. They are fabulous people. They honored me last year at the Waldorf Astoria. I knew them.
I was going to give it to three companies or three groups and we couldn’t vet them quickly. And so I gave it to the Marine.
And if you look at number, the Marine Corps Law Enforcement Foundation is a fabulous group and I didn’t have to go through a big vetting process with them. Because I was going to split the $1 million check up amongst...and in the end I just didn’t want to go through the process of having to vet all those different groups.
Because I wanted to make this out of the goodness of my heart. I didn’t want to do this where the press is all involved and all of a sudden everybody is going "Where did it go? Who did it go to?" Then we said who it went to, then we said how much was it.
...Look, when this started...I said if we could raise $1 million that would be good. And we ended up raising almost $6 million. And I’m going to have more coming in over a period of time.
I’m totally accountable but I didn’t want to have credit for it.
Actually though what I got was worse than credit because they were questioning me. And this is money. And by the way, most of that money went out very early just so you understand. But a lot of these groups – getting vetted by, you know, when you pay the money out, they need government documentation. They need a lot of different things.
Plus, we want to find out who’s in the good group.
I had people – teams of people – reviewing statistics, reviewing numbers and also talking to people in the military to find out whether or not the group was deserving of the money.
We have given to groups that are unbelievable groups. And honestly, I wish you could hear the phone calls and see the letters. They are so happy. And I’m happy to do it. I didn’t want the credit for it but it was very unfair that the press treated us so badly.
Well, generally speaking, that’s 100% true.
I like scrutiny. But you know what? When I raise money – excuse me, excuse me, I’ve watched you on television. You’re a real beauty. When I raise money for the veterans and it’s a massive amount of money – find out how much Hillary Clinton has given to the veterans – nothing.
And then I see a few guys standing out there. They don’t even know what they’re there for. They have no idea. They’re there because Hillary Clinton’s campaign sent them.
And actually I think it was you or one of you that found out that they actually were with Hillary Clinton’s campaign, which was interesting but I wasn’t surprised.
I don’t want the credit for it but I shouldn’t be lambasted.
And remember this: So out of the almost $6 million that was raised not one penny did I take for administration cost. That’s unheard of.
How else am I going to raise the money? How else am I going to raise the money?
I would have given – just so you understand. Until I was criticized – so I’m the only one in the world that could raise almost $6 million for the veterans, have uniform applause by the veterans’ groups, and end up being criticized by the press.
Yes, I made a speech and during the speech I said, "Let’s raise a little money for the vets." It turned out to be a lot of money, not a little money. I thought if we could get to $1 million, it would be great, which it would have been.
That’s right. I do raise millions.
No, I don’t think so.
No, I raised almost $6 million. Some of it didn’t come through. But more money is coming through than didn’t come through. The number probably is going to be – when we finish it probably going to be over the $6 million.
I don’t mind it coming from the opposition...What I do mind is when I raise all of these millions and when we started out nobody ever thought it was going to be over $5 million or close to $6 million.
So, look, here’s the story. Here’s the story. I think and I’ve been dealing with the press a long time. I think the political press is among the most dishonest people I’ve ever met, I have to tell you that. Okay?
...But I think the political press...I think the political press – I see the stories and I see the way they’re attached.
For instance, I went down this weekend to do Rolling Thunder. I was invited. I didn’t have anything to do with it. We had a tremendous gathering of people – thousands – I don’t know how many thousands – but many thousands of people. And I joked "Oh, I thought we were going to go from the Jefferson Memorial to the – " I was joking. They said "Donald Trump was disappointed". Everybody knew I was being sarcastic and joking. They said some of them. Said Donald Trump was very disappointed that it didn’t go from Jefferson to Lincoln. You know, millions of people.
I was joking. I said "Oh, I’m used to watching it. We had – " I was joking. So they put it down as serious. They know I was joking.
I’ll give you another example. We had a certain – same event – it was roped off where you could only get so many people there and there were a lot of people. I don’t know – 10,000, 15,000, maybe 25,000. I don’t know there was a lot of people. Plus there were people breaking the seams all the way along.
Eugene Washington, a man I like actually, wrote an article said there were 5,000 people there. There were many times that. And you weren’t allowed to have any more people.
And all of these people were with their motorcycles in parking lots all the way. They were waving to me as I’m going.
But wait a minute. The point is law enforcement – these people didn’t allow you to have any more people.
...I had a tremendous crowd but it was the biggest crowd you could have had. It was all cordoned off. You weren’t allowed to have any more. You weren’t allowed to have any more people than that.
So instead of saying Trump made a speech in front of a packed crowd, they said "Trump was disappointed" because I didn’t have millions of people going from Jefferson to Washington. I mean, give me a break.
...Honestly, it’s dishonest reporting.
Well, the veterans believe me. Let me tell you, the veterans why they believe. And I have group that I gave.
...I could have asked all these groups – he just showed up. I just saw him. But I could have asked all these groups to come here and they could have made – I didn’t want to do that.
I’m not looking for credit. But what I don’t want is when I raise millions of dollars have people say like this sleazy guy over here from ABC – he’s a sleaze in my book. You’re a sleaze because you know the facts and you know the facts well.
Veteran:
Thank you, Mr. Trump.
First of all for the record, I’m a state representative from New Hampshire, 10 years on the veterans affairs committee, 22 years in the Marine Corps, retired First Sergeant.
What I want to clarify here first of all, I would never ever in a million years put my name on a candidate that did not from his heart look me in the eye and tell me he’s concerned about veterans. That’s Donald Trump. I met him over a year ago.
I’ve been involved in many fundraisers. There are many scammers out there. He did the right thing by vetting these groups there.
If you look at some of the groups, they’re given 20 cents, 40 cents on the dollar and they’re spending the rest for you know their nice lavish trips. He gave 100%.
The liberal media is the only ones that have been calling the foundation. All right? I’m a former chairman. I’ve been dealing with this stuff for years as a veterans activist.
Stop using veterans as a political pawns. You’ve got a guy outside...go do a Google search on his Facebook. He’s out there. His pictures with Clinton.
They are using veterans as political pawns. It must stop.
Donald Trump is doing this with a heart. You’re all focused on the way he’s raising money and you’re not looking at the 22 veterans that are killing each other everyday. You’re not concerned about the thousands of veterans that are on waitlists.
Look at his plans on his Trump website. He talks about medical cards. He talks about fixing the VA. He talks about competition.
I think the liberal media and I’ve been dealing with you a long time. You need to get your head out of your butt. Focus on the real issues.
Thank you.
What I did – I didn’t ask Al. I’ve gotten to know Al a little bit primarily through New Hampshire where we had great victories. But he showed up this morning because he was upset.
And many of the other groups were upset. They received $100,000 in the mail. They didn’t even know what it was for. It was from me. Other groups received $200,000, $250,000. They didn’t know what it was for.
And again, upstairs I have received phones calls with people crying. I have received letters – heartfelt letters.
...The bad part about the dishonesty of the media is that people like me will be inclined not to do it anymore. Because why should you raise $5.6 million and I think I’ll go over $6 million pretty easily. Nobody said that we started this out as a small little project where it was less than $1 million because it kept just mushrooming and building and building. But nobody talks about that.
So we raised $5.6 million. We have so many happy groups. So many happy veterans.
And then I see these Hillary Clinton people outside. Now, of course, they don’t know the extent. They probably figured based on reading the press that Trump didn’t make, you know, didn’t raise this kind of money.
But we raised a lot and I’ll be raising more and we’ll be sending it to other people as we get along.
It’s a complicated process.
No, it doesn’t...You know, the government sort of approves different groups for a lot of reasons. So it really does – and more than anything else, it’s also speaking to other veterans. We have a circle of veterans. I don’t want to send a $250,000 check to a group that doesn’t do good work. So it’s called vetting. We vet the vets. But it’s called vetting.
I think it’s bothersome because I love the vets and I’ve worked hard for the vets. And as you can see, I’ve given a lot of money and raised a lot of money for the vets.
And I think when the press portrays it differently, the press is being very dishonest. So I don’t like that. I don’t like dishonesty.
Jeff Sessions is a fantastic man. Jeff Sessions is one of the most highly respected people in the United States Senate.
Jeff Sessions is a person that I believe that Ted Cruz has the most respect for and I think Ted thought that he would get an endorsement.
You know, Jeff Sessions has never endorsed a presidential candidate before as many years as he’s been in the Senate.
So you know, Jeff Sessions is certainly somebody that I would consider. Absolutely. He’s a fantastic person.
I think it was a very tough call. It was amazing because there were moments with the gorilla the way he held that child that almost like a mother holding a baby – looks so beautiful and calm. And there were moments where it looked pretty dangerous. I don’t think they had a choice. I mean, probably they didn’t have a choice.
You have a child, a young child, at stake. You know, it’s too bad there wasn’t another way.
I thought it was so beautiful to watch that powerful almost 500 pound gorilla and the way he dealt with that little boy. But it just takes one second. It’s one second – it’s not like it takes place over – well, he’s going to do it 30 seconds from now. It just takes one little flick of his finger. And I will tell you they probably had no choice.
...
I’m entirely in favor of fixing the VA health care. VA is one of the great catastrophes in this country what’s going on.
You look at what’s happening in Phoenix and different places throughout the country where they’re catching people stealing and they don’t even fire them, where people are waiting five days, six days, seven days on line. They’re dying while they wait on line.
And I am in favor of if they can’t get to a doctor within a reasonable period of time, they’re going to see a doctor and the country’s going to pay for it. They’re going to go to a private doctor or a public hospital and a public doctor but some place that can take them immediately. We’re losing thousands of people waiting on line.
And the Veterans Administration is run by Obama just as incompetently as he’s running our country.
You look at the TSA, you look at what’s going on at the airports and you look at that. Okay? Just take a look at that. That’s like the Veterans Administration.
Nothing in our country works anymore. It’s a mess.
And maybe that’s why I’m doing so well in the polls.
No, it doesn’t have to be privatization. No, it doesn’t have to be privatization. What it has to be is when somebody’s on line and they say it’s going to be a seven day wait, that person is going to walk over to across the street to a private doctor, be taken care of. We’re going to pay the bill.
And by the way, that’s going to be a lot less expensive. And we’ll check it out and be careful. But that’s going to be a lot less expensive than what’s going on.
These people are living in hell.
And Hillary Clinton said the Veterans Administration is working just fine. And the head of it, McDonald said last week that waiting in line is not bad – look at Disney World. Okay? These are the kind of people we have running things. It’s ridiculous.
...That’s their choice. You have a party called the Democrats and they’re going to have to make that choice. I think it’s probably going to be her because it’s rigged.
And I think if you people will say I’m the one that came up with the term "rigged". I used it for myself, except that I won by such big margins that the whole system is rigged on both sides. With the Republicans it’s less obvious. With Democrats with the whole super delegate thing, it’s ridiculous.
So I think that they’re going to have to make that determination.
If you’re asking me who I prefer running against?
I think what she did was very bad and I think a lot of people have done a lot less than her and their lives have been destroyed.
The judge has been very unfair. Has not done a good job. He’s been a very bad judge. Has been very unfair. And I will win the Trump University case. I already am as far as I’m concerned. But I will win the Trump University case.
Because I don’t care...
I have a judge who’s very, very unfair.
Well, you’ll see it in court documents. But I have a judge who’s very, very unfair. He knows he’s unfair. And I’ll win the Trump University case. I can settle that case. I could have settled it. I just choose not to.
In fact, when I ran this, they said why didn’t you settle up that case? I don’t want to settle the case.
Because you know what? Because I’m a man of principle. And most of the people that took those courses have letters saying they thought it was great essentially. It was good. It was great.
And you know what? When they’re on the stand and you say "How come you signed the letter saying that Trump University was so good? How come you signed the letter?"
The woman that was the original plaintiff in the case – they went to the court and the judge allowed her to get out of the case. The case should have been dropped. The whole case should have been dropped.
They wanted her dismissed from the case. You know why? Because she was deposed, she was such a bad witness that we’d win the case easily. She signed a letter and she’s on film. She’s on tape like these cameras saying unbelievably good things about Trump University. So they didn’t want her anymore because she’s a disaster for them.
So they went to the judge and they said "Your honor, we’d like to have her not be a participant, not be a plaintiff in the case." And he said, "Oh, that’s okay." She’s the one that started the case.
Now, they don’t even want her to testify. They don’t want her to testify because she’s a disaster. She has all sorts of beautiful statements about it. And importantly, she’s on tape saying how great it is. They don’t want her. I wouldn’t want her either.
Now, I could have settled that case. I could settle that case. I can settle that case. I don’t want to. I’ll go through the process.
Because we’re down the line. Because we’re down the line and the fact that you can’t win as independent. For the most part, you can’t even get on Texas and various other states now. It’s too late. But Texas is out.
...Here’s what happens. What happens is you will not have – and very importantly – you will not have Supreme Court justices. You’re going to lose. You could have as many as four or five. That’s over.
Now, Kristol’s the one that’s – but he’s the last one. Don’t forget, he said "Trump will never run." The guy’s not a smart person. He said, "Donald Trump would never run." Remember?
You remember? I actually blame you. Why do you put this guy on television? I see him on the different shows. He’s got no credibility. Said I won’t run. If I run, I won’t do well. If I do well, this and that. He looks like such a fool.
I saw him on one show. He’s practically crying because he can’t justify.
Now he comes out with a tweet over the weekend – over Memorial Day weekend – it sounds like he’s going to put somebody up. Even I thought it. I thought, "Oh, they’re going to find indie."
Now he comes out with something saying he was almost – almost – kidding. Okay?
Let me tell you, these people are losers. He’s trying to make you – he’s trying to drive you guys a little bit nuts.
If they do an indie, assuming it’s decent, which I don’t think anybody with a reputation would do it because they’d look like fools. But what you’re going to do is you lose the election for the Republicans and therefore you lose the Supreme Court, therefore you will have a group of people put on the Supreme Court where this country will never ever recover. It will never, ever be the same.
No, I didn’t say that. I said Bill Kristol is a loser and I’ll tell you why...He has called every single move. Take a look – on me, he’s going to lose this state – I won in a landslide...I didn’t say everybody. Many. I didn’t say everybody.
Wait, wait, wait. Bill Kristol is a loser. His magazine is failing, as you know. It’s going to be down – I don’t think it even survives. He’s getting some free publicity.
But Bill Kristol – I’ve been watching this for two years. "Trump isn’t going to run." Then I go into a race, we go into New Hampshire. "Oh, he’s not going to win New Hampshire." I win in a landslide. Every place I went I was not going to win. But I win in a landslide. Do you think maybe he doesn’t like me?
It’s wrong. It’s wrong. I didn’t get 30%.
My last score was 78%. I didn’t get 30%.
I don’t know. No, no, no.
Here’s the way I look at it.
When I have somebody that’s not on my side, when you know – by the way, I’ve gotten great applause from the press in terms of as an achievement because the Republican Party is really well unified.
We have come up. People that you would have never thought possible are now saying, "I support Trump." So remember that. We don’t talk about that too much.
But actually last week, the big story was how fast the Republican Party is healing because it is a healing process. It was a rough – that was a rough campaign...
I can this. The real is how fast we’re getting together.
Now, if I have a Republican who’s not on my side, I’m not going to be – why should I be particularly nice to that person? I’m not going to go after it like I would Hillary or Crazy Bernie. But you know what? Why should I be nice to that person if I have a person that’s not going to support me? I have no obligation.
Politically, I may be right. I may be wrong. But that’s who I am. I’m a very honest person...
If somebody is going to say a little bit negative or a lot negative about me and if they happen to be Republican, I may choose to hit them back. Not always. But I may choose to hit them back.
I’m not a fan of Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney lost an election he should have won.
And if you read the front page of the Wall Street Journal about Mitt Romney, he looks like a fool.
Look, I’m not a fan of Mitt Romney. Just so you understand. I raised a lot of money for Mitt Romney. I made robocalls for Mitt Romney. I made speeches for him. He let us down.
If you read the front page of the Wall Street Journal this weekend, Mitt Romney looks like a fool.
Now, what would I say good about Mitt Romney?
She was not nice and I was fine, just a little bit of a jab. But she wasn’t nice. And you think I’m going to change? I’m not changing, including with her.
Bob Dole is a fan of mine. Bob Dole endorsed me. So don’t tell me about Bob Dole.
Well, look, Gary Johnson, he got 1% of the vote last time. I watched that whole situation. It was pretty disgraceful. I think it’s a total fringe deal. I think he’s a fringe candidate if you want to know the truth. I look at him and I watch him and I watch his motions and I watch what he says. I think that he is a fringe candidate...when you do a little research on that I think it’s not going to be a factor. Okay?
No, not all of you. Just many of you.
Yeah, it is. Yeah, it is. Let me tell you something. I’m a person – yeah, it’s going to be like this...If the press writes false stories like they did with this – half of you were amazed that I raised all of this money. If the press writes false stories like they did where I wanted to keep a low profile. I didn’t want the credit for raising all this money for the vets. I wasn’t looking for the credit.
And by the way, more money is coming in. I wasn’t looking for the credit.
But I had no choice but to do this because the press was saying I didn’t raise any money for them.
Not only did I raise it, much of it was given a long time ago. And there is a vetting process and I think you understand that.
But when I raise almost $6 million and probably in the end will raise more than six because more is going to come in and is coming in. But when I raise $5.6 million as of today, more is coming in. And this is going to phenomenal groups.
And I have many of these people vetting the people getting the money and working hard. And then we have to read probably libelous stories or certainly close in the newspapers and the people know the stories are false, I’m going to continue to attack the press.
Look, I find the press to be extremely dishonest. I find the political press to be unbelievably dishonest. I will say that.
Okay, thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Well, thank you very much everyone.
I want to start by, as always, thanking my family. My wife, Melania. My kids – they’re not kids anymore but they’re kids as far as I’m concerned. They’ll always be my kids. And I want to thank my great parents who are looking down right now and my brother looking down on us. I want to thank my entire family, including Maryanne, Elizabeth, Robert.
And it’s been some unbelievable day and evening and year. I never have been through anything like this but it’s a beautiful thing to watch and a beautiful thing to behold, and we’re going to make America great again. We’re going to make America great again.
So important – so important that the people of Indiana have been incredible.
I started as you know not very long ago – about six weeks ago – and I was told that I had a 20 point deficit.
And I went there and I worked very hard and I campaigned and I made lots of speeches and met lots of incredible people – incredible people. You don’t get better, and the crowds got bigger and bigger. And toward the end, it was like I didn’t want to leave. I almost said, "Maybe I’ll just never leave" and it resonated somehow and we have a tremendous victory tonight.
It was a tremendous victory.
And I have to thank Bobby Knight. Boy, Bobby Knight was incredible. He was incredible.
I always that people like that – there aren’t many – but it’s called tough, smart, and they know how to win. And that’s what our country needs. We have to win again. We have to know how to win.
And we haven’t won. We’ve been losing all the time. We lose with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We lose with trade. We lose with borders. We lose everything.
We’re not going to lose. We’re going to start winning again and we’re going to win big league. Believe me.
So when I got back tonight and I started watching all of the different networks, I could immediately that we were doing very well, and it really looks like a massive victory and it looks like we win all 57 delegates.
And I must say in staying in various places in Indiana, I turned on the television and all I saw was negative ads, negative one after another after another.
And I called my people and I said, "How can we win? It’s just constantly." It was the same as in Florida. You know, there’ve been 60,000 negative ads.
I got it right from you folks, okay? 60,000. In fact, two weeks ago it was 55,000. Now it’s 60,000 negative ads – most of which are absolutely false and disgusting. And I said how can anybody endure this?
I had one evening two nights ago where literally they had five ads on in between segments of a show that I was watching. And I said that’s just incredible.
And the people are so smart. They don’t buy it. They get it.
And it’s tremendous, tremendous amounts of money were spent – millions and millions of dollars. And they were comparing it. They think it was probably $8 million was spent against me and we spent $900,000. So, I mean, to me that’s the way it’s supposed to be. That’s something that makes me feel really, really very good.
And now we’re going to Nebraska where I have – I just hear we’re doing really wonderfully. I look forward to that very much.
And West Virginia. And we’re going to get those miners back to work. I’ll tell you what. We’re going to get those miners back to work.
We’re not going to be Hillary Clinton, and I watched her three or four weeks ago where she was talking about the miners as if they were just numbers and she was talking about she wants the mines closed and she will never let them work again.
Let me tell you, the miners in West Virginia and Pennsylvania which was so great to me last week and Ohio and all over, they’re going to start to work again. Believe me. You’re going to be proud again to be miners.
So we’ll be going there. I must say this tremendous run that we’ve had started with New York when we had almost 62%. And don’t forget, that’s with three people. So 62% with two people is a massive landslide. But 63% almost – just a little over 62% – when you have that kind of a number with three people, it’s actually unheard of.
And all throughout, it was 17 people, then 15, then 12, you know, it’s tremendous, and we were getting very high numbers. And some of the numbers in my opinion that I got in the early stages were in a state with 32% but there were 14 people. I think that might actually be more and better than getting 62% in New York. But we never got the credit for that.
But now we don’t need the credit because we’re going after Hillary Clinton. She will not be a great president. She will not be a good president. She will be a poor president.
She doesn’t understand trade. Her husband signed perhaps in the history of the world the single worst trade deal ever done. It’s called NAFTA.
And I was witnessed to the carnage over the last six weeks especially. Now I’ve known Syracuse and I’ve known Poughkeepsie and I’ve known all of the different places that I visited in New York and then Pennsylvania and then Maryland, which treated me so great the people are incredible.
And all of the different state – Connecticut. And I’ve witnessed what it’s done really firsthand. And it has been indeed carnage.
And we’re going to change it around.
We’re not going to let Carrier and all of these companies just think they can move – go to another country, make their products, sell it back to us, and we get only one thing: We get unemployment. Not going to happen anymore, folks. Not going to happen anymore.
We’re going to bring back our jobs and we’re going to keep our jobs. We’re not going to let companies leave.
Now, if they want to go to a different state, good luck, compete.
But when they start going to different countries and in many cases countries that devalue their currency and make it impossible for our companies to compete, that’s not going to happen. Not going to happen.
And if they want to do it anyway, there will be consequences, and there will be very, very serious consequences.
I have to tell you that I’ve competed all my life. Competitive person. All my life I’ve been in competitions. Different competitions whether it’s sports or business or now for 10 months politics.
And I have to tell you that I have met some of the most incredible competitors that I have ever competed against right here on the Republican Party.
You know, we started off with that 17 number. And just so you understand – Ted Cruz – I don’t know if he likes me or if he doesn’t like me. But he is one hell of a competitor. He is a tough, smart guy.
And he has got an amazing future. He’s got an amazing future. So I want to congratulate Ted.
And I know how tough it is. It’s tough. It’s tough.
I’ve had some moments where it’s not looking so good, and it’s not a great feeling. And so I understand how Ted feels and Heidi and their whole beautiful family.
And I just want to say that one tough competitor and I can say that for the others. I mean, Chris Christie who endorsed me. Incredible guy. Dr. Ben Carson who was right up there, one of the first. He just called me and said, "It’s a movement you’ve got going. We’ve got to do something because I’ll tell you what, it’s an incredible movement." And Dr. Ben Carson endorsed me. And I want to tell you that is an incredible man and we want to keep Ben totally involved because we’re going to win. We’re going to win in November.
And we’re going to win big and it’s going to be America first.
You know, I made a speech the other day and I talked about how we’re the policemen for the world, how we protect other countries and they don’t respect us and they don’t take care of us and they don’t treat us right in many cases.
And that’s not going to happen.
Now, we’re going to keep things going and we’re going to keep things going very nicely but we owe – soon – $21 trillion. It’s $19 trillion now but with a budget that was recently done, soon it will be $21 trillion.
And we’re just not in a position that we’re in 30 years ago, 40 years ago, 50 years ago when a lot of these things took place and began taking place.
So, we’re going to have unbelievably good relationships with other countries.
But likewise they have to treat us fairly and they have to understand that what we’ve been doing over the years has been so wrong and so unfair to the United States, to its people, and to its taxpayers.
So that will change. And I will tell you, they’re going to end up liking us better than they do right. They’re going to respect us.
In this building right upstairs, I have the largest bank in the world from China. The relationship is fantastic.
We have great relationships with many foreign countries. But they have to respect us and they have to understand where we’re coming from.
And you know, it is a two-way street. And the two-way street means that we’re going down one side and they’re coming up the other. And we’re going to meet and we are going to have something that’s going to be really fabulous.
Now, if that can’t happen. If for some reason they want this system to continue the way it’s going now, which is not fair and not good, where we’re spending trillions and trillions of dollars probably $4 trillion in the Middle East.
And we have to build our infrastructure, our roads. We have to rebuild our bridges, our airports, our hospitals in this country.
We’ve become close to a third world country. You look at some of our airports; it’s third world. And then you go to other countries and you see places like you’ve never seen.
So I have to say that we are going to turn it around.
We’re going to build up our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before. It’s the cheapest thing we can do. And we’re going to have to take out ISIS and we’re going to have to take them out fast. We can’t allow that cancer to continue. We cannot allow it to continue.
And you know, one group that’s been so incredible to me are the vets – the veterans. And they’ve been treated so badly. So badly. And we’re going to get that straightened out.
Now, one of the things that just happened, which to me is very exciting and it’s happened now with two or three. But the Rasmussen poll came out yesterday and in that poll, I’m now leading Hillary Clinton. A lot of good things...
And that’s going to continue because they’re not going to be able to do it, folks.
They’re not going to be able to make great trade deals. We have such bad deals.
They’re not going to be able to do what we do with the military.
They’re not going to be able to do what we’re going to do on the border, including the wall.
We’re going to have unbelievably great relationships with the Hispanics. The Hispanics have been so incredible to me. They want jobs. Everybody want jobs. The African-Americans want jobs. You look at what’s going on. They want jobs.
And we’re going to bring back our jobs. We’re going to save our jobs and people are going to have great jobs again.
And this country, which is very, very divided in so many different ways is going to become one beautiful loving country. And we’re going to love each other. We’re going to cherish each other. We’re going to take care of each other. And we’re going to have great economic development.
And we’re not going to let other countries take it away from us because that’s what’s been happening for far too many years and we’re not going to do it anymore. We’re not going to do it anymore.
I want to thank and congratulate the Republican National Committee and Reince Priebus, who I just spoke to. He’s doing a tremendous job. It’s not an easy job when he had 17 egos and now I guess he’s down to one.
I don’t know. Is there a second? I mean, is there a second? I don’t know.
But I have ask you folks to explain the status of that.
But he’s done an amazing job and I think we’re going to see something really, really fantastic.
I also want to thank my staff, Paul, Cory, Pope. I mean, these people. What we’ve been doing has been incredible.
The work has been unreal.
And Jared, married to my daughter Ivanka. I mean, honestly, you know Jared is a very successful real estate person but I actually think he likes politics more than he likes real estate. I’m excited. And he’s very good at politics.
So again folks this has been an amazing evening. I didn’t expect this. I didn’t expect it.
And what Ted did is really a very brave thing to do and a great thing to do because we want to bring unity to the Republican Party. We have to bring unity. It’s so much easier if we have it.
And many, many people are calling that you wouldn’t even believe – the media, the press, they wouldn’t believe. People who have said the worst things about me – I’ve never had things said about me like this.
You know, with my businesses, I’ve always been very respected. People didn’t talk to me this way. But in politics, it’s easy.
The worst things and they’re calling now and they’re calling us all and they’re saying, "We’d love to get on the train" – the "Trump Train" they call it – "But we’d love to get on the team."
And I actually spoke to one today who was vicious. I mean, this guy was unbelievable. And I said, "I’d love having you and I think it’s terrific. But after what you said about me how can you possibly join our team?" And he said, "Mr. Trump, don’t even think about it. Don’t worry about it. There’ll be no problem." In other words, he’s a politician; there’s no problem. I would have had a hard time.
But we have a lot of people coming – lots of congressmen. I have to thank Jeff Sessions – Sen. Jeff Sessions – one of the most respected men or people in Congress.
And so many others. I mean, Sarah Palin has been from day one incredible.
Jerry Falwell, Jr. Liberty University, I mean he is something. He is really a special person. They’ve done an incredible job and everybody goes through Liberty. We all go through Liberty and somehow he liked what I was saying and perhaps he liked the way I said it. But he’s a special guy and he really has helped. And so many pastors and ministers.
And tonight, I see that I won with the evangelicals. The evangelical vote was for Trump.
And there’s no greater honor. No greater honor. We’re going to work together for many, many years. We’re going to make it so good. We’re going to be saying Merry Christmas again. We’re going to be saying it...
And I won with women. I love winning with women. But I won with women. I won with men. We won with Hispanics. We won with African-Americans. We won with every – virtually every category. So it’s just been an amazing evening.
So again, I want to congratulate Ted Cruz. He is a tough, smart competitor. I want to thank my wife and my family. It’s an incredible family.
I want to thank my staff – both my staff and my thousands and thousands of people that work for the Trump organization, and perhaps in all fairness more importantly on this evening and for what we’re doing currently, my staff where we’re running for the presidency.
And remember this. Our theme is very simple. It’s make America great. We will make America great again. We will start winning again. You will be so proud of this country very, very soon.
Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you! Thank you very much!
So beautiful. She said, "Do you mind? I wrote something – coming out, I wrote something. Do you mind if I said it?" I said, "Not at all. Should I read it?" She said, "I don’t want you to read it. I don’t want you to read it."
Thank you very much. I want to thank Melania for that. That was very special.
You know, Wisconsin’s a really special place, and we’ve been all over today. Speeches all over. We had one before. Thousands and thousands of people standing outside of an airplane hangar because the hangar was packed. And we had another one in the morning, and it’s been an amazing day, and some phenomenal results.
You see what’s happening with the polls. Boom! Like a rocket ship. It’s like a rocket.
I guess I just heard when I walked in one just came out that we’re 10 points up. But don’t worry about that. Pretend you didn’t hear that. Go out and vote tomorrow. Okay? Go out and vote tomorrow.
You know, I always tell – I used to say this to politicians that run that’d be friends of mine, I’d say, "Pretend you’re a little bit behind. Okay? That way you’d work hard. You’d never forget."
But you know, there’s somebody that was – I saw just a little while ago in the audience a very special woman, an incredible woman, and Melania just said hello and met her was so taken, and she represented you so beautifully. And some of you know who she is. Many of you know who she is.
But she was Miss Wisconsin. She has one of the most incredible spirits that I’ve ever seen. She’s got her husband and her son and her son is absolutely magnificent and she loves him more than anything that you can imagine.
I’ll tell you that’s an amazing and just an incredible story and we’re going to make sure that it goes as well as it can.
She was so amazing the way she walked up here and just spoke from the heart, and we all have to speak from the heart.
And you noticed no teleprompters? We don’t have teleprompters. We want to do it right from here and from here and from here.
But I just want to – I saw Melissa, and I said, "I have to have you up" because her story’s an amazing story and it’s a story of courage and we’re going to work with her family and we’re going to make sure everything goes well.
Okay, thank you all very much.
So, in coming over today and in going through a few of them, I said to a few of the folks I’ve got to explain what’s happening because our country is being decimated by stupidity, by bad deals, by horrible trades, by TPP, which Cruz wants badly and which is going to destroy Wisconsin.
This Trans-Pacific Partnership is a disaster. Cruz is pushing it hard.
Kasich, I don’t think he’s a player here. I mean, the guy is one in 32. He’s one and it was in his own state. And if I would have campaigned there two more days instead of staying in Florida, I would have won in my opinion Ohio. He’s one and 32.
Now, in all fairness, Jeb Bush was doing a lot better than that. Many people were doing better. It’s called you get out. He’s taking my votes. We have to get over 50%. And how do you do that?
Look, at a certain point in life, what you do is you say, "I’m one in 32. In other words, I’ve won one out of 32 states," and you do what Marco did, which was great, and you do what Rand Paul did, and you do what a lot of them did, and you get out.
And she’s going through a very hard time. And she has been so supportive and so like just incredible of what we’re all – what we’re trying to do. Not me. I’m a messenger. What we’re trying to do – make America great again and bring it back and stop letting the world take advantage of us both militarily and we don’t win anymore.
We don’t win anymore. We don’t win with trade. We don’t win with the military.
We pay for everybody else’s military.
We don’t know what we’re doing.
And she saw it and she was here early. And she knows that we’re going to take care of our people, and it’s going to be America first. It’s got to be America first. We have no choice. We have no choice.
And she’s with a friend of hers who’s very well-known, Chelsea Cooley, who is a tremendous, tremendous woman and just an amazing person. Also a great singer but I won’t even mention that because Chelsea would be the last to want to have people know that. Chelsea is such a great friend of Melissa Young and Melissa Young – I just want to bring her and Chelsea onto the stage and maybe Melissa would like to say something and Chelsea. But this is just an unbelievable woman.
So could I ask Melissa to come up on stage please?
And by the way, if you want, you could put your name up and you say "I want to run" and you go to the convention and you run.
But it would be nice to see – because I’ll tell you what, he takes my votes away much more than he does Cruz. And I don’t like it. I don’t think it’s right. I don’t think it’s appropriate.
But you know what? If we have to live with him, we still beat him easily. Okay, folks? I mean, okay?
But Kasich voted for NAFTA. NAFTA was a disaster for Wisconsin and it was a disaster for our country.
Ted Cruz wants TPP and it is going to make NAFTA look like peanuts. What they’re doing to us with those documents, and Cruz is the one that insisted that we can’t talk about money manipulation, which is devaluation of currencies in the agreement. He wouldn’t let them do it. He’s the one that fought currency devaluation. That’s the single biggest tool that other countries have for taking our business, taking our money, and taking our jobs. And we can’t let this go on any longer.
Now, they’re controlled by their PACs. They’re controlled by the people that put up their campaign contributions. They’re controlled, you know, with the lobbyists in Washington. They have signs on their forehead. It’s like stamped into their forehead – "I take care of Cruz." They’re specialists. "I take care of Kasich." "I take care of Hillary."
Oh, Hillary. Ayeyeye. "Take care of Hillary."
So we can’t let it happen anymore. We can’t let it happen anymore.
It’s time – you know Obama used to say, "Time for change"? I’ll say it’s time for change but real change this time not that change. Real change.
Obama yesterday – President Obama yesterday for the first time he started having reservations about the Iran deal. I could have told him that six months ago, nine months ago, long before it was signed. The ink isn’t even dry and now he’s finally starting to understand it was a big beautiful mistake and it’s only going to get worse.
And by the way, Iran is getting worse. They were supposed to come into the community. Remember? What a bunch of babies. Are we babies? Are we babies? Hello over there.
They were supposed to come into the community and they were supposed to, you know, get involved.
Now, you see they just ordered 118 Airbus jets. Those are the big jets. 100. They didn’t order Boeing.
The reason – one of the reasons is we restrict them from spending. So we give them $150 billion and they’re not even allowed to give us money by investing, by buying our products. Okay? How crazy are we? How much longer is it going to last? When are we going to get smart? When are we going to stop?
We as a country are being ripped off. We are being ripped off by virtually every single country in the world. Okay? Whether it’s militarily or trade.
We don’t win anymore. We can’t win with the military. We can’t beat ISIS.
Can you imagine Gen. MacArthur or Gen. George Patton? They say get rid of ISIS. What do you think?
...It’s so sad to see what’s happening to our country and we’re going to turn it around and we’re going to change it. And we’re going to make it rich again, and we’re going to make it strong again.
So, and so many different elements, and I’ve been talking about trade. I always talk about trade.
Because when I announced on June 16th coming down the escalator with Melania, it was like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras; I’ve never seen anything like it. So many cameras. And I took a deep breadth and I said, "Let’s go." Because we have to do it.
You know, it takes guts. Running for president, believe me, takes guts. It takes a lot of guts. Believe me.
And even for the politicians they run at least they’re out on the line, and then you see the dishonesty. You see where I won Louisiana and then I find out that I’m not supposed to get as many delegates as the person that I beat. What kind of stuff is that?
And somebody said, "Well, there’s a rule and another rule." I don’t care about rules, folks. I go out and I campaign. We win. We win. We get the delegates. Right?
But in the meantime, we have millions more votes than Cruz. We’ve beaten him in most of the states. I mean, we’re just winning so much. And we’re winning by almost 300 delegates.
So we’re doing great. And I think we close it out before the convention. I think we actually close it out before the convention.
And that’s like a prizefighter. You know, they go into unfriendly territory, and the champ, he goes in. And they say, "What do you think? You may have an unfriendly decision." He says, "No, when you knock them out, there’s no unfriendly decision."
If we get the delegates, we’ve pulled out a knock-out. And that’s the way it’s going to be, and I can see that happening because more and more people are calling, they want to get on board.
Frankly, when I looked at what happened – a friend of mine, who’s a great – you know, one of my great friends, he lives right down – not very far from here. And he said, "With Wisconsin, you’re going win." I said, "Well, what do you think? But I’m not seeing polls that are great. I’m a little bit down. I’m down in some. I’m a little bit down." He says, "No, no, you’re going to win. But you have to be there. You have to come in and you have to talk to the people." Like we did this afternoon at the hangar. And he said, "You’re going to win. I mean, you’re going to win." He’s a very smart guy, I want to tell you. Great guy. But he said, "You’ve got to come in."
We’ve been making – I’ve been making speeches, three today, four yesterday, three or four the other day. We’re here constantly. You’re going to get so sick of me. You’re going to say, "Oh, get him the hell out of here."
No, we are making so much progress and it’s been so inspiring to see the people. I mean, look at even you people. You don’t sit down. If you want, you can. Oh, stay up. Stand up. What the heck? Hey, we’ve got plenty of time to sit down, right? We’ve got plenty of time.
But I do appreciate that. That’s a sign of affection, and it’s a sign of respect, and I really do appreciate it. That’s really nice.
So we have to bring our country back and so many different things.
With China, we have a trade deficit of $500 billion a year.
With Mexico, we will build a wall. We will have strong borders. Strong borders. Believe me. We have a trade deficit of $58 billion a year. The wall’s going to cost $10 billion to build. And people, the politicians are saying, "How can you possibly get them to pay?"
Let me tell you something, folks. We have some good business people in this audience.
When you have a $58 billion deficit, and you have a $10 billion wall, that’s real easy. And that’s on a yearly basis the $58 billion. It’s really easy.
And they don’t understand it. They said, "How are you going to get them to pay?"
I said, "It’s so easy." And you understand it. Just rely on me. Okay? Rely. So easy. That’s so easy. And we’re going to have a strong border.
You know, two days ago I was greatly honored because the Border Patrol, the folks that do a great job, and they’re told to stand back but they don’t want to stand back. They want to do their job properly. They’re proud people. They’re incredible people. Frankly, before the wall goes up, we might not even need the wall, but we’re building it anyway. Okay? We’re building it. Believe me.
But the Border Patrol people are unbelievable people, and its 15,500 people gave me an endorsement two days ago. And I didn’t ask for it. I didn’t know.
First time, first time they’ve ever done it. Right? First time, they’ve ever done it and they gave me an endorsement. And it’s so important.
Now, Sheriff Joe from Arizona. You know, I won Arizona very big, and Sheriff Joe was with me and it was incredible and we love it.
Look, we have to have strong borders. We can’t let the Syrians come in that we have no idea who they are, where they’re coming from. We don’t know if they’re Syrians.
This could be the all-time great Trojan horse. Who knows?
I have as big a heart as anybody. We want to help them. We want to build safe zones in Syria.
I want to get the Gulf States to pay for it. The Gulf States have nothing but money. We don’t have money. We will run it. We will do a good job. We’ll get it done but let somebody else pay for it for a change. We can’t do it.
...I keep getting these requests. You know, Al Green – the great Al Green wrote "The Snake". How many people have heard "The Snake"? How many people? Oh, do you want to hear "The Snake"? Do you want to hear it? I mean, people love it and I love it because it says what’s going to happen to us if we’re not careful.
And this really pertains to allowing people into our country that we know are going – we’re going to have problems. We’re going to have huge problems. Allowing people in from areas of the world we don’t know where they come from. We don’t know where their documents are. They say they don’t have documents. They have no papers. No nothing. We let them in. How stupid can we be?
So this is called "The Snake" and I think it’s pretty good. All right? Are you ready for this? A couple of you have heard it but some of you haven’t.
"On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. ‘Oh well,’ she cried, ‘I’ll take you in, and I’ll take care of you.’ ‘Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,’ cried the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk and then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she’d taken in had been revived. ‘Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,’ sighed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom. ‘You’re so beautiful,’ she cried. ‘But if I hadn’t brought you in by now, heaven’s sake you might have died.’ Now she stroke his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. ‘Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,’ sighed the very, very healthy snake. ‘I saved you,’ cried the woman, ‘And you bit me. Heaven’s why? You know your bite is poisonous and now I’m going to die.’ ‘Oh shut up, silly woman,’ said the reptile with a grin. ‘You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.’"
Right?
That’s what’s happening to our country, folks. That’s what’s happening to our country and we can’t let it happen. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant. We have to be strong. And if we’re not, we’re not going to have a country.
And we need borders and we’re going to have borders.
And we need great trade deals and we’re going to make great trade deals.
And we can’t let Mexico and I have great respect for Mexico and I respect their leaders but we can’t let Mexico and China and any country you want to name steal our business, steal our jobs.
When you look at what’s happening in Wisconsin – and you see it – the reason I beat your governor and I beat him badly was I just read off the statistics. I just read – all I did, I stood up and I read statistics. You’re losing jobs...It’s very average. It’s very average.
Our country is less than average. Okay? Our country is doing so badly. And it’s just one of those things and we have to smarten up and we have to get really tough. We have to get so, so, so vigilant and not be so politically correct. We have to do what’s right for our country.
When the great Ford Motor Company – great company – when they build a $2.5 billion plant in Mexico, when Nabisco moves its massive plant to Mexico from Chicago, we can’t let it happen.
When Carrier Air Conditioners, as you know, they just announced they’re moving to Mexico.
Pfizer is moving to Ireland.
But let me just tell you. So, I watched the politicians and they have no business instincts. But more importantly, they’re taken care of.
You know, a lot of friends come up to me and they say, "Donald, let me ask you a question. These politicians – are they really that dumb?" I said, "No, they’re not actually that dumb. Some are. But they’re not actually that dumb. They’re all taken care of by the special interests. And when you want something done, you see certain people in Washington."
Hey, who is better than me? I mean, take a look at me. I was before June 16th, I was a part of the establishment and they will do not what’s right for you but they will do what’s right for the company they represent or the country they represent and the United States continues to get ripped off, ripped off, ripped off.
And a lot of times, I’ll say, "How can a deal be so stupidly made? These people are so stupid." They’re not stupid. They’re doing it for themselves. They’re doing it because they want campaign contributions. They’re doing it because they want money put in their PACs. They are totally controlled by the money. Believe me. They are totally controlled by the money, and that’s not good for our country. Okay? That’s not good because terrible things are happening and we’re getting weaker and weaker.
Hundreds of thousands and even millions of jobs are being taken out.
You look at the jobs we have. Even in Wisconsin, I mean, you see the jobs, the manufacturing, it’s all so down and so gloomy and throughout the United States. And it’s a disaster what’s going on in our country. We’re not going to have jobs left.
And they do it with manipulation of currency. And they do it with guile. They do it with so many different elements that our people don’t even know what’s happening.
Our politicians in most cases don’t even know what’s happening. And when they do know what’s happening and they let it happen, it’s even worse.
So I’m not taking money from anybody. I’m self-funding my campaign.
And we’re going to get it. We’re going to get it.
Now, I look at this U.S. manufacturing – I mean, just look at this. Look at these charts. I mean, you can see them...This is where we’re going.
You know that’s not good. Right? This is where we’re going.
There was one that I just saw. Just got this. It’s like incredible.
Look at this. This is U.S. manufacturing jobs rapidly decline since year 2000. Look at that chart. Another couple of years, there won’t be any jobs.
And the jobs we have now are bad jobs. These are bad jobs. These aren’t good jobs. And everybody admits that. Even the other side says, "We agree. They’re bad jobs."
And the number that they talk about when they say 5% unemployment – it’s a fictitious number. When you stop looking for a job, you’re considered statistically employed.
It was a number that was made up years ago probably by president but certainly by politicians to make them look good, to make them look really good like the economy.
The economy is not good. The economy is bad.
We’re sitting on a bubble. The banks have money. They give it to you for nothing if you’re rich. If you’re not rich, that’s when you need the money, they don’t loan it to you. So the people can’t do jobs.
Probably here you have some great companies, some really good smaller companies, you can’t get the banks to give you money. The banks are controlled by the regulators. They system that this country is run under is out of control.
And we’re going to change it. We’re going to bring back the jobs. We’re going to bring back our companies.
And you know I’ve had such a response. And the reason I’ve had response is because of that and then I look at the ads today.
I’m in hotel and I look at the ads and Cruz makes up these ads. "We’re going to bring back jobs" – he’s using my same language.
Here’s the problem. They don’t know where to begin. They don’t know where to begin.
And if they did, Lyin’ Ted, lyin’, he comes up. Did you ever see a guy like this? Just look what he did with Ben Carson.
Ben Carson, who endorsed me by the way, is a great guy, and Lyin’ Ted, remember in Iowa, he said "Ben has left the race. He’s left the race." This was on election day. It’s not like two days before or the day after. "During the election, he left the race." Okay? And people believed him and thousands of votes were cast not for Ben but for Ted Cruz. It’s pure deception. It’s lying.
And then there were many other things. And actually during one of the debates, Marco Rubio looked over and he said, "You’re a liar." And I said, "You know, I never heard a politician call another politician liar so we can do it." So we now call him Lyin’ Ted – Lyin’. It’s crazy. It’s crazy.
I mean, what he does and what he says is just terrible. And you know, I’ve met a lot tougher people but I’ve never met any human that lied as much as him.
And he comes in and you noticed the tremendous evangelical support I have? I have Jerry Falwell Jr. from Liberty University. I have all of these people. I have such incredible support.
And the evangelicals – he thought he was going to get the evangelicals but they don’t like liars and they see he lies so much.
Do you ever see him – he walks up and he walks in with the Bible, held high. Right? Held high and then he starts to lie.
Boy, he is bad.
So anyways, I don’t think that you’re going to fall for that. I really don’t think that anybody is going to fall – he doesn’t talk. He debates...I said, "Ted, take it easy. Just talk. Talk. Talk."
But we’re doing really well. The whole thing is just working out. And I loved being here. You know, I’ve been here for a long time. I’ve been here for a long time. I’m going here – we’re going to stay tomorrow. We’re going to have some, I think I’m doing Fox and Friends tomorrow morning. I’m doing some shows tomorrow. We’re going to do some shows and we’re going to be around and we’re going to make sure – we want to bring this home.
If we can – you know, we have a movement going on, folks. And it’s a movement of intelligence, actually. It’s a movement of common sense. That’s all it is.
We’re not going to let Carrier make air conditioners, fire all of its people, move to Mexico, make the air conditioners then come in and take the money out of the country. It’s not going to happen anymore.
And I’m a free trader. And they say, "He’s not a – " Remember Jeb Bush? "He is not a conservative." I said, "What?" I am a conservative. But you know what? I believe in free trade.
But when you have free trade, you need smart people running your side of the free trade.
If you don’t have smart people or if you have people like Ted Cruz that are totally controlled by the people that give him the money and they’re controlled by the establishment. I mean, look at the establishment.
This guy in his whole life didn’t know what the word establishment meant. Now you have all these people going because they said, "Oh man, Trump is terrible. He doesn’t want any of our money."
I had one friend that came into my office – I don’t think I’ve ever said this before. He came into my office. He wanted to give me millions of dollars. I said, "I can’t take your money. I don’t want your money. I’m self-funding." He said, "No, no, no, you’ve got to be kidding." He didn’t even know. He thought I was kidding. He wanted to endorse me, wanted to support me. I said no, no, I don’t want. Anyway, he was finally convinced that I didn’t want his money and he’s leaving. And I said, "By the way, what are you going to do now?" He said, "I’m going to give it to another candidate." And I said, "Why?"
They’re gamblers. They have to do it. It’s like almost a disease. They have to do it. It’s the craziest thing.
He loves me. He wants to give give me probably close to $10 million. Right? I would have had the greatest Super PAC in the history if I would have taken all the money.
And my whole life, you know, I’ve said this before, my whole life as a business person is this. Right? It’s okay. Nothing wrong with it. I take. I keep taking. I take and take.
But now I’m going to take for the United States. We’re going to take. We’re not going to be the stupid people anymore. We’re not going to be the stupid people anymore. We can’t be. We can’t be.
And with NATO when they don’t pay, you know, I said – I was asked a question by Wolf Blitzer, a very fair question about NATO.
Now, you know, I’ve been a businessman. World class. I filed my business papers. They were phenomenal. Everybody says great, great, great. I built a great company. Very little debt. Tremendous cash flow. Some of the greatest assets in the world.
And I tell you that only for one reason – that’s the thinking we need in Washington. We need some of that thinking.
And Wolf Blitzer asked me a question on television. He said, "Let me just ask you about NATO." Now, I haven’t been asked about NATO a lot but I understand NATO and I understand common sense, and I’m like a smart person like many of the people in this room. Hopefully all of the people in this room.
But he asked me about NATO. I said, "It’s obsolete." This was my first thing.
And you know what? I’m the first one.
Guys that study NATO and good people but they study NATO and they say, "I don’t believe it. What he just said, I never thought of it." They study it because they’re so into it that they don’t realize because it was really put there.
You had the Soviet Union and now you have Russia, which is different but Russia is powerful so we could sort of say that’s a balance. So we’ll leave it.
But it doesn’t really cover terrorism like it’s supposed to. Doesn’t have the right countries. I mean, many of the countries and there aren’t – that you associate with terrorism.
And so I said number one, it’s obsolete.
I said number two, to the best of my knowledge, the United States pay far too much proportionately and why are we always paying the bills to protect other people?
And the press, which is so totally dishonest, the press goes – headlines the next day – "Trump doesn’t want NATO, wants to disband NATO". And that’s not what I said.
I said, you’ve got to pay your bills. And you know what? If you can’t pay your bills, honestly, there should be – they’ve got to go because we can’t do it. You know, this isn’t 68 years ago. This isn’t when it was originally formed like many, many years ago, many decades ago, and you have to re-do things.
But it is interesting. Some of the smartest people have said "What Trump said is genius. It’s obsolete. And you know what? It’s true." There’s a lot of people, a lot of countries being given a free ride. We can’t have the free rides any more, folks.
...Thank you. Well, we need somebody with that...And it’s America first, folks. It’s America first.
So then, as you know, North Korea is a big problem. North Korea is a problem. A problem that could be solved easily by China but they don’t want to solve it because they want to tweak us. They’re building in the South China Seas a massive military fort. You know what’s going on. They shouldn’t be doing that.
And they’re taking our money and, you know, you talk about the imbalance of trade, you talk about the kind of money. How about this? We owe China $1.7 trillion.
Now, they take our money. They take our jobs...I’m not angry at China. I’m angry at our people and our leaders for letting it happen.
I’m not angry with China. If you can get away with it, you do it.
But they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our money. They take everything.
We owe them $1.7 trillion. That’s sort of like a magic act. Doesn’t it? Amazing.
Japan, they send cars by the millions. They come off those boats. Los Angeles – I was there at the docks. I looked at the biggest boats you’ve ever seen. Biggest, greatest ships you’ve ever seen. The cars are pouring off the ships. We owe them $1.5 trillion.
It’s like, well, how does this all happen? Okay? How does it happen?
Here’s the story, folks.
We’re going to change our thinking. We’re going to be the smart people again. We’re going to be so smart. We’re going to be so sharp.
So a lot of people don’t know we protect Japan. Do you know that? Does anybody know? You might know...We protect Japan. We protect Germany. We protect South Korea.
When you want a television set, who do you get it from? South Korea. Samsung. LG. You get it from South Korea.
So we protect all and big ships they make. These are monster, monster economies. We protect them.
They don’t pay what they should be paying for not having to have this massive military apparatus that we supply.
And you know what? We get that because we have people that don’t know what they’re doing in Washington for many years. I mean, I’m not even blaming it – Obama’s the worst. He’s the worst. The worst.
I mean, when he just realizes, I mean he just realized that the Iran deal is a bad deal. It just took him – realize – I said, "Oh, why didn’t you listen to me two years ago?" Just two years ago if he would have listened – can you imagine? Did you ever see a deal take so long?
By the way, usually when a deal takes that long, it’s bad automatically. I can usually tell you that.
But anyway, so we protect Japan. So it comes out...I said, look, I would have to tell Japan and I’m talking about other nations also because I have great friends from Japan, I have great friends from South Korea. We have to go see them, go to talk to, have a meeting with them, "We love protecting you." We don’t want them to arm necessarily. But you know, at some point, how long are we going to do this?
So we have to see them and we have to say, "You’ve got to help us out."
You know, we have this massive, massive amount of money that we have to get rid of because we’re sitting on one of the worst bubbles you’ll ever see. Okay? Believe me. We’ve got to straighten it out.
We’ve got to straighten out our trade deals. We’ve got to straighten out our military deals. We’re taking care of all these countries.
So we go to Japan. And here’s what the...I was telling the people and they said "Wow, that sounds good." We’ve got to take – you’ve got to take care of us.
Now, they’ll probably say initially "No". And then we leave and then they’re going to say, "Yes."
But if they don’t say yes, you always have to be prepared to make a great deal to walk. You have to be...
The problem with the Iran deal was that Secretary Kerry was like an amateur. Call him amateur night. He refused to walk. They were laughing at him in the streets of Iran. They were claiming the deal was the greatest deal ever made before it was even made. They were saying "This deal is unbelievable." They were laughing at the Secretary of State of this country. They were laughing at the United States saying that this deal is great. And they were dancing. Remember? Burning the flag dancing?
When they start dancing about a deal that I’m making, when they start burning the American flag, I’m out of there. Bye bye. Good luck.
And he just kept going back.
And I kept waiting. I wanted to call him. I wanted to call him. I wanted to say, "Walk." Because every single thing – he’d say, "We would like to get this." "No!" "Oh, okay. You’ve got it. We would like to get that." "No!"
You know, the Persians are great negotiators. It’s an unbelievable deal.
But just yesterday, Obama just yesterday he brought it up that he’s very unhappy.
I mean, think of it. Think of it. $150 billion. It’s the worst deal. We didn’t get our prisoners back. We should have had the prisoners back before we started negotiating. Increase the sanctions. Don’t sit at the table. Say "You give our prisoners back or we’re not starting." You leave. They’ll say "No". You leave. And what happens? You double up the sanctions. Within 24 hours, they call you and they say, "You’ve got your prisoners." That could have been years ago. Right?
So we have people that don’t know what they’re doing.
Here’s the story. You need Trump. You do. You need Trump. You bet...You do. I mean, you’ve got to have Trump.
I mean, it’s sort of interesting because I see when I turn on the television, I see these ads about myself by crooked people.
I see these ads and they’re mostly wrong. A little bit sometimes are right but they’re all negative. You know. And I’m looking, I’m watching this on television – ad after ad.
In Florida, they spent $38 million on negative ads and I won it in a landslide...Does anybody read? Does anybody watch television? You know, it’s not much for the advertising community when you think they spent $38 million – a record number in Florida.
They spent thousands and thousands of ads nationwide – listen to this one – 55,000 negative ads on me. Most of them was made up.
I’ll give you one good example.
We have the Club for Growth, which is forget them. These are among the dumbest people that you’ll ever meet.
They come to my office. They want me to give them $1 million.
A friend asked me, "Please see them." I said, "Who are they?" "They’re Club for Growth." Whatever that means.
So they come to my office. They asked me for $1 million. I say, "No, thank you." And that’s it.
Then they write me a letter, which I posted, asking me for $1 million. I said very nicely – I’m not a bad person – I said nicely "No, thank you." I mean, you can be rich but you don’t have to be stupid. Okay? Why am I going to give them $1 million?
So, what happens is all of a sudden I see their name all over the place – "Club for Growth" and they talk about, you know, different things – ridiculous things. I mean, they’re the worst ads.
And by the way, once was a fraudulent ad because they said, "If Cruz and Kasich got together and you added the delegates" – and they showed the delegates. Right? And you add them up – and I’m over here with a lot. And they said – and they add them up and they show a graph that goes much higher than mine and it’s much lower than mine.
They’re a fraud. And what we did is we told them to stop that ad and that was a week ago. And we tweeted about it. And everybody’s talking about it. And I see it last night again.
They’re crooked. So here’s what they do. It’s like a form of extortion, I guess. Right? When you think of it. They come to your office. They ask for $1 million. You don’t give them $1 million. They go out. They do negative ads.
These are the people – you know, if these people about Trump – they call it like "No Trump". What do they call that thing? They call it "Never Trump". Oh, you need Trump so badly though.
I was saying if they would work, if they would have worked so hard, so diligently against President Barack Hussein Obama, they would have beaten him. They would have had great budgets. They would have had everything they wanted.
But with him...I always say, "Obama is the worst negotiator I’ve ever seen." You look at the – no, except with the Republicans. He gets everything he wants.
I mean, you look at the omnibus budget from three months he got everything he wanted – fund Obamacare, bring people into the country that shouldn’t be here. He got everything he wanted.
So he is the worst negotiator worldwide.
We have Sergeant Bergdahl. Right? We get Bergdahl, a traitor. No, no, think of it. This is a negotiation. We get Bergdahl. And they get – what do they get? Five of their most coveted killers that have been in jail for eight years in Gitmo, which we’re not closing down by the way. Okay? We’re going to run it.
So we get Bergdahl, a traitor, who five or six – probably six – people were killed going out to try and get him back. He left. He’s a traitor.
So we get Bergdahl, and that’s what we get. And they get five people that are right now back on the battlefield or soon to be back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody in sight, including us. Okay?
We’ve got to stop it. We’ve got to stop it.
So with Japan, I said they got to – maybe we’ve got to walk. And the next day the headlines – "Trump doesn’t want to defend Japan", "Trump wants Japan to get their nukes".
Okay, here’s the story, folks. You have Japan. Japan is very concerned with North Korea.
You know, number one, I like the way it is now but I want them to pay a lot more money. They probably will. But if they don’t, it’s not so bad if they are at heads. Maybe we’re not supposed to get into that fight. That’s a bad fight. Maybe we’re not supposed to. Okay? Okay?
Same thing with South Korea. I mean, every time he raises his head and he starts talking, every single time he raises his head, our ships start floating over, our planes start going over. We do all sorts of exercise. What are we get out of this? We have 28,000 soldiers on the line.
So, we have to be taken care of.
Now, I’m talking as a person financially. Okay? I’m also talking militarily. But I’m talking financially.
We don’t have a country that can do this anymore.
Saudi Arabia, until the oil went down and now they’re still making a fortune. But Saudi Arabia was making $1 billion a day. We protect Saudi Arabia. If we weren’t there, Saudi Arabia wouldn’t be there. If Saudi Arabia didn’t have us for years protecting them, they would have been gone a long time ago as Saudi Arabia. Somebody else would have it, probably maybe Iraq because he would have come back.
And by the way, speaking of that, you know, I was against going into Iraq. Everyone says, "Oh, Trump is going to be very tough." I was against going into Iraq from the very beginning, from the very beginning.
And I’m going to build our military bigger, stronger than ever before. But you know what? Hopefully, we never have to use it. Nobody’s going to tell us what to do though. We have to shape it up because our military is totally depleted.
But if our politicians would have gone to the beach for the last number of years, many years, we would be much stronger in a sense. We’d be much stronger because the Middle East is a disaster. You see the great migration. It’s a catastrophe.
You see what’s going on in Germany. It’s a total mess. What she has done.
Can you imagine? She was Person of the Year.
I was supposed to be Person of the Year on Time Magazine. She beat me out and she destroyed Germany. Can you believe this?
That’s not good. I wonder if Time Magazine had that one to do over again what they’d say. I think we’ll be in much better shape. Well, they’ve treated me nice. I’ve been on the cover a lot.
And the reason we’re on the cover a lot is because we have a movement the likes of which people have never seen.
So here’s the story. Here’s the story.
You know, one of the great writers called me up and he said, "What you’ve done is incredible." I said, "No, no, I have to win." He said, "No, no, it makes no difference. If you win, if you lose, it doesn’t matter. What you’ve done is down in the history books. You will be cover for all time. It’s incredible." I said, "No, sir. No, sir. I have to win. Because if I don’t win, to me, I will consider it a tremendous waste of time and waste of money but a tremendous waste of time."
So here’s the story. Here’s the story. We’re going to take care of our Second Amendment. It’s being chipped and chipped.
We’re going to get rid of Common Core. We’re going to bring education back locally.
We’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare, which is a total catastrophe. You’re going to have great health insurance.
We’re going to save your Social Security. We’re going to save your Medicare. We are going to save it because we are going to make our country rich again. We’re going to bring back our jobs. We’re not going to let our jobs go. And we’re going to be able to afford – you’ve been paying in it a long time and a lot of these guys want it to be knocked to hell. It’s not going to happen. Okay? Remember that. It’s not going to happen.
We’re going to start winning again, folks. We don’t win anymore. We don’t win anymore. We don’t win with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We’re going to win. We’re going to knock the hell out of ISIS.
We don’t win with our vets. Our vets are being treated worse than illegal immigrants. Our vets are being treated so unfairly. They’re our great people.
And other people – you know, vets have endorsed me virtually unanimously and a lot of the vets will come up to me and say, "You know, Mr. Trump, we follow closely what’s going on. You’re the only person that ever mentions the vets." Right?
And Hillary Clinton recently said about the vets that they’re being taken care of just fine. They’re not being take care of fine. They’re not being taken care of. She said they’re being taken care of just fine.
I know the vets. Nobody’s spent more time with the vets that are running. And we’re going to take care of our vets. Okay?
We are going to tear up and make great and very lucrative and everybody is going to be happy, including the other side, trade deals.
I have the greatest people in the world for dealing.
We use political hacks that don’t know what they’re doing. They’re dealing against the smartest people in China, the smartest people in Japan, the smartest people from all over the world, and our negotiators are political hacks and we’re not using them anymore.
We’re using the greatest business people in the world and we have them in this country and they’re endorsing me, and I know the best ones from the not so great ones. And we’re going to have great, great trade deals.
We’re going to have a strong border. We’re going to have a real border. We’re going to have a wall. Mexico is paying for it. We’re going to have a wall.
And we’re going to stop bad, bad things from happening in this country. Because if you look at what’s going on and you look at the tremendous crime and you look at the drugs that are pouring across the border, it’s – the drugs are pouring like water. They’re pouring across.
You know when I won – New Hampshire is a special place to me because they were the first victory I had. And I won New Hampshire, and I wasn’t expected to win it; Jeb was expected to win it. And I won it in landslide.
And I’d go around and I’d see the people of New Hampshire, and they tell me, "Mr. Trump, our biggest problem is heroin." I said, "Heroin?" It doesn’t make sense. You know, you look at the beautiful trees or the woods or the roadways and the lakes. I said, "Heroin?" It just doesn’t work. It’s incongruous. Right? It doesn’t work. But it was heroin. And I said, "If I get in, we’re going to stop that problem." Then I said, "Where does it come from?" They said, "It comes from the southern border. They come right in."
Now, New Hampshire rated it their number one problem. They have a tremendous problem. But many other communities, including you, but many other communities have this problem. We’re going to stop it cold, folks. We’re going to stop it cold.
And the bottom line is this. Look, we have a big, big day. And you’re going to look back on this evening and you’re going to say that was one of the great evenings of your life because we love the country. We love the country.
...I love you too. Thank you.
Really do. I love the people. I love the people.
You know, they say Donald Trump – my base is so strong. They say, "Donald Trump can do almost anything." In fact, one person today said "Anything".
And they interviewed a woman, I saw her last night on television sitting in a hotel room, which was not the most beautiful room I’ve ever been. It was very clean, and I only want clean. I don’t care about the room. I want clean.
But they were sitting there and they said to a woman – a wonderful woman, probably 55 years old, and her friends were there. And they said, "What would it take to get you to vote for somebody other than Donald Trump?" She said, "Don’t play that game. There’s nothing he can do that would get me to vote against him." And I wanted to go up and I wanted to hug that television set.
I wanted to – I wish I could find out who she is. But we have so many people like that. We’re all like that. I mean, a big chunk of the country is like that because we’re tired of stupidity. We’re tired of seeing what’s happening to our great country.
So, here’s the deal. You’re going to go home and you’re going to remember this.
But much more importantly, tomorrow, you get everybody you can and I promise you. You’re going to be so proud of your country. You’re going to go out and vote. You’re going to be so proud of your president. But forget that. You’re going to be so proud of this country again.
And you’re going to remember the evening because we’re going to start winning again. We’re going to win on trade. We’re going to win with our military. We’re going to knock out the ISIS.
We’re going to win. We are going to win with the military. We’re going to knock out ISIS. We’re going to knock them out.
We’re going to win for our vets because our vets have been treated too badly. It’s not going to happen anymore.
We’re going to win at the border. We’re going to win with education.
We’re going to win with our Second Amendment. So many people talk to me about the Second Amendment.
We’re going to win at every single element of what we’re doing. And every single thing we’re going to win, win, win.
And you’re going to say, "That was the single greatest vote that I have ever cast", and you’re going to look back and you’re going to be proud of yourselves and you’re going to be proud of your country again.
So thank you very much everybody. This is a great, great honor. Thank you!
Get out and vote! I love you all! Thank you! Thank you very much! Thank you!
Thank you. I feel so badly. Outside we have 5,000 people and they can’t get in. I feel badly. I want to apologize. We have speakers outside. But I want to apologize. Who would have thought we have over 5,000 people cannot get in.
...It’s an honor to be here. It’s an honor to be with you. And very important. You know, we’re doing really well and millions of votes ahead of Cruz. Millions.
You know, I get a kick. I call him Lyin’ Ted. Lyin’ Ted Cruz. He stands up – and I win as you know, you’ve seen it. I have been winning all of the evangelical vote. But he stands up Bible high, puts it down and then he lies. You know, it’s amazing to watch it.
But he said, "Yeah, I’m the only one who can beat Donald Trump. I’ve done it time after time."
And I said, "Wait a minute. I’ve won like most of the states."
I think he had like 5 or 6 and I had 20 or 22. Right?
And I said I can’t believe it. And I have millions of votes more.
He says, "I’m the only one that can out-vote him." And I’m saying but I have like millions of votes more.
I’ll tell you something so important. There is something happening. It’s like a movement. It’s incredible. It’s a movement. And we’re part of the movement.
Not me. I’m a messenger to be honest. I’m a messenger.
And this is something that’s so special and so amazing and it’s on the cover of time magazine. It’s on the cover of every newspaper. It’s something that has maybe never happened and they’re saying it’s phenomenon.
Sometimes they say I’m a phenomenon. I’m not. The message is what we want.
We want jobs. We want trade deals that are smart deals not stupid deals.
And you know, Wisconsin. I wrote down some notes...and it’s like devastating.
So Walker came out today. I wrote down notes about Wisconsin.
Look, he certainly can’t endorse me after what I did to him in the race. Right?
But look at this. By the summer of 2015, Wisconsin was facing a $2.2 billion two-year budget deficit. That’s terrible.
By the way, these are out of books. Like this isn’t Trump. This is out of books.
Total state debt is $45 billion. Now, maybe somebody is going to tell me that’s wrong but again these are – $45 billion. Very high. One of the higher ones.
20,000 fewer people in the labor force in Wisconsin than seven years ago even though population has grown by 100,000. So your population is higher.
Now, I wouldn’t have done this but he endorsed Cruz. What am I going to do? Am I going to say he’s doing a great job? He’s not doing a great job.
You know, he comes in with his big motorcycle jacket and big Harley. I love Harleys. Right? But the motorcycle guys like Trump. They really like Trump.
And he doesn’t look like a motorcycle guy to me. I’m sorry. I’m sorry.
Unemployment rate – well, they say – that can’t be possible. Unemployment – they have down 20%. That can’t be possible. What? Is it 20%? Effective or regular? Effective unemployment rate 20%. Hey, this is out of the big book.
800,000 food stamp recipients.
Middle class hit very, very hard due to loss of manufacturing jobs. These are the stats. Right? You know about this, right?
It goes on and on.
Wisconsin has lost 15,000 net jobs to Mexico since NAFTA.
Now, just so you understand, Kasich is running also. We forget about him. He voted for NAFTA.
Both of them want TPP. TPP – Trans-Pacific Partnership. Both of them want Trans-Pacific. That will make NAFTA look like a baby, and Wisconsin will be hit so hard.
...
...But the motorcycle guys love Trump.
I love the disabled veterans and the veterans. We’re going to take care of our veterans. You know that, right? We’re going to take care of our veterans.
What is it about Trump that they like?
I’m serious. We went to Hilton Head. We went to different places, and there were hundreds, hundreds of bikers out there. Beautiful bikes. Lots of Harleys, right? Lots of Harleys. Made in America. But beautiful, beautiful bikes...
I don’t know what it is but they like me. I feel good with them. I feel safe. I got out took a picture. Secret Service went crazy.
I said, "These are great people. Don’t worry about it."
But listen, I appreciate it, fellas, I appreciate it.
...We’re going to keep you free. I’m going to keep you free.
Because we’re getting rid of ISIS.
We’re going to have good borders. We’re going to have borders again. We’re going to have borders again.
So here we have something that’s pretty interesting – I love you too.
You lost 70,000 jobs to China. 70,000 jobs.
100,000 illegal immigrants living in Wisconsin. Taxpayers are paying tens of millions of dollars.
Look, I don’t know. I don’t know.
So what happened with Walker and I just will finish off with this – he’s a nice man. He came up to my office like about a year ago before I did – you know, I’ve been a politician for about eight months, right? I never thought I’d be a politician. The last thing on my mind I want to be was a politician.
But I built a great company. I filed papers. The company is incredible. Very little debt, tremendous cash flow, some of the great assets in the world.
And I say that not in a bragging way. I say that because that’s the kind of thinking we need, folks.
We can’t have China ripping us off and Mexico and Japan and Vietnam. We can’t have it. We can’t have it. And they are ripping us like they’ve never ripped anybody before.
We’ve rebuilt China. I mean, we’re rebuilding Mexico.
You look the other day you saw Carrier moving down. Carrier Air Conditioning. I buy those air conditioners – a lot of them. I’m not buying any more of them. But Carrier Air Conditioning moving to Mexico. Ford moving to Mexico.
Nabsico – home of the formerly wonderful Oreo which we don’t eat anymore. Right? We don’t eat it. We don’t eat it. Number one, it’s a good – it’s called an enforced diet.
But you know what? Look, we’re losing our jobs. Look at your jobs.
When I see that statistic, I mean you’re losing your jobs.
When I went after your governor when he decided to run and I said, "You know, I’m going to be nice to him. He’s a nice guy." The guy came up to my office. He handed me a plaque because I supported him. What do I know? I supported him. I gave $50,000 or $100,000. That’s a lot of money for a guy you’ve never met before. Right? That’s pretty good.
But I like the fact that he was fighting, fighting, he was always fighting.
You know, to a certain extent, I’d rather see somebody able to make a deal without having to go through all of that mess.
But he was fighting and I gave him a lot of money and he came up, you know, a year ago or so and he gave me a plaque. Beautiful picture of something. I haven’t – I never really got to read it to be honest. And I put it aside. That was it...
Because if we win Wisconsin, it’s going to be like over, pretty much over. Because we’re going to do great.
...Emerson poll came out. I think I have 67%, 68% in New York compared to like 10% or whatever, and you have Cruz talk about New York values, New Yorkers are no good.
I watched New Yorkers rebuild the World Trade Center. I watched New Yorkers dying.
Believe me, New Yorkers are good. New Yorkers are very good. But Cruz said they’re no good.
So anyways, so I think we’re going to do great in New York.
We’re going to do great in New Jersey. Chris Christie endorsed me. We’ll do great in New Jersey. Good guy.
Ben Carson endorsed me. Sarah Palin endorsed me. Sheriff Joe from Arizona. We love Sheriff Joe.
And you know, with the evangelicals, I’ve had so many ministers. I’ve had so many pastors endorse me. And Jerry Falwell, Jr. endorsed me. It was incredible and we’ve done so well with the evangelicals. I mean, Christians, evangelicals, we’ve done so well.
In fact, in South Carolina, when we went to South Carolina, that was going to be Cruz’s territory. He was going take it, except we won it in a landslide.
You know that. You saw it. He was there. This guy follows me around, I’ll tell you.
But you were there. Remember, he was going to win that in a landslide. And then I started speaking. I started talking to people, and I started saying the good and the bad and the ugly.
And we won in a landslide and we won the evangelicals. I’ve won just about I think almost every place I’ve won with evangelicals.
And it’s been an amazing time.
So now I’m here to talk to the people of Wisconsin. I have friends in Wisconsin. I’ve been here before. It’s an incredible place but it’s a place that has problems.
But you have a governor that has you convinced that it doesn’t have a problem.
I remember when he was on the campaign trail, I was so nice to him. I said, "How can I hit him? I’m not going to hit him. I’m not going to hit him."
And I was so nice. I hit Jeb instead, right? Right?
And I hit Rand, Rand, old Rand.
And I hit a lot of people and they all went down.
Wouldn’t it be nice to have a president that could just with his mouth make things happen that are positive? You know.
But it’s not with the mouth. It’s really with the mouth, the heart, and the brain. Remember the brain.
I have a lot of friends. They’re good with the mouth but they’re not good with the brain. It all doesn’t work. Okay?
You know, we had an interesting thing today. A poll came out – a nationwide poll. A great poll. It was Trump 48%. It was an NBC poll. Trump 48%. Cruz was second in the 20s, mid-20s something. And Kasich was way down.
So what happened is they showed the poll. It was an NBC poll. They call it an NBC monkey poll. And it was on the Today Show, and it was on Morning Joe. Morning Joe held it up and he said, "Wow, those are great numbers."
48% is pretty good. You have three people. You know. I don’t get enough credit for that.
I’ve been at 42%, 44%, 45%, and I’ve had like seven people. How do you get 45% when you have seven people? Nobody says that. They say, "He hasn’t cracked 50%." How do you crack 50% when you have all these people running?
So I’m at 48%. Poll was good – way, way ahead of anybody else nationwide. And they showed Hillary Clinton – hers is very close.
She’s got a little problem. Could happen. Got a bigger problem with the emails than she has with Bernie to be honest with you. She should have. Her bigger problem should be with emails. We’ll find out how honest our country is, right?
But she’s got a sort of close race. And they put her poll up and it was put up there. You know, big letters.
And then they said, "And Donald Trump is winning." That was it. They didn’t put numbers up. They didn’t say I’m doing great. In fact, they said, "Donald Trump is winning," and they put some – a little slightly negative statistic in – it was like wait a minute. They put her numbers up and they didn’t put my numbers up.
Folks, it’s so unfair. The press is so dishonest. It’s unbelievable. That was Chuck Todd. That was Chuck Todd this morning on the Today Show.
They put Hillary’s numbers. And I’m winning by a lot and they said, "Donald Trump is winning. You know, let’s go to a new subject, okay?"
Now, I guarantee you one thing. If I was losing or doing poorly, it’ll still be up. It’ll be up all morning because they don’t like what’s happening. I’m self-funding my campaign. I’m putting up my own money. They don’t like it.
Ted Cruz and Kasich are getting money from the banking industries, the energy industries. They’re getting money from the pharmaceutical companies. They’re getting money from everybody.
Folks, you can’t straighten out this mess – we’re in a mess – if you can’t do what you have to do.
When millions of dollars are given to Cruz and Kasich and millions from different industries, you’re not going to be able to say, "Well, we’re going to do and go against the banking industry to do what’s right for the people" if the banking industry gave you millions of dollars. Now, that’s true with Hillary also. Now, she’s gotten millions of dollars.
But I’m the only one self-funding my campaign. I’m in for a lot of money. I in a lot of money.
What is beautiful is when I was running against Jeb in New Hampshire. I was in for like $2 million. Jeb was in for like $48 million. I was in first and he was close to last.
I said, "Who do you want as your president?"
By the way, did Jeb endorse anybody yet? Because I haven’t heard. Because I think Jeb probably endorsed – huh? Did he endorse? It just shows you how important it is. Nobody even knows. I don’t even know.
He’ll probably – he’ll endorse – just so you know. Look, when you’re in war, you’ve got to fight and you fight hard.
When I fight, I win. You’re going to win. You know that. You’re going to win.
But you know, you do pretty serious damage, right? Because you want to win and you want to win fast and a lot of people don’t love you after you finish.
But I just love you. I don’t care about that.
In fact, they’re asking Cruz, you know, at the debate which by the way they said I won every single debate. Now I heard the other night, "I want to debate Trump". I’ve debated him 11 or 12 times. Every single online poll has me winning the debates. He’s an okay debater but he’s a bad talker. You know, everything’s so dramatic.
And he waits. Phony. And he waits. You know, you ever see he goes sentence after sentence and then he stops for like three, four seconds. And then he goes again. It looks like we’re in the theater. We’re not in the theater. We’re in the real world.
So what happens – thank you.
...By the way, the Sheriff is here and he’s a great guy and his people are fantastic. Thank you, Sheriff. Thank you.
I mean, the only thing I feel so guilty about all the people outside. Feel so guilty. We’re going to come back. We’re going to come back, come back to this area. You guys cannot come. Okay? All of the ladies can come but the guys can’t.
But all of the people outside, we’re going to take a bigger place because I feel slightly guilty.
But look, we have a very serious mess on our hands. We have a very serious situation.
We have a country that’s not protected.
We have a country that’s sitting on a big fat bubble that’s going to explode. In a certain way, I’d say let it do now, don’t do it after I get in. Three days it’ll explode and they’ll say it’s Trump’s fault. Okay?
Ayeyeye, we are in a big fat ugly bubble. We have interest rates that are so low that if you’re rich like me I can borrow money for any amount. If you’re a hardworking guy with a great farm or you’re a hardworking developer or businessman you can’t borrow money.
You can only borrow money really cheaply – think of how bad it is – you can borrow money for nothing practically if you’re rich. But if you’re rich, you don’t need the money so you don’t have to borrow it.
But if you’re a businessperson and you want to go to the bank for a loan, you can’t get it.
The regulators are running the banks. Dodd-Frank is a disaster, by the way. It’s a disaster. It’s a disaster.
But the biggest disasters are regulations. Our rules and regulations are horrible. We’re going to get rid of probably 85% of them. There are some we live with. But we’ve got to go back.
So many people in this area have told me regulations – regulatory climate – is the worst they’ve ever seen.
I have a friend, who’s a farmer, and if a puddle forms, they consider it a lake for the purposes of environmental. It’s like a puddle and they’d consider it a lake.
So we don’t know what we’re doing. So here’s what’s happening. We’re going to make our country so great again. We’re going to make our country so strong again.
Our military is going to be so amazing. We’re never going to have to use it.
Don’t forget, I didn’t want to go into Iraq. All these guys think that I’m a tough guy so I’m going to be so quick with the trigger. I’m not going to be quick.
I was the slowest with the trigger. I didn’t want the trigger.
Now, when Obama left though, he shouldn’t have left the way he did. He gave a certain date, and the enemy said, "It can’t be possible. Nobody would be that stupid. Nobody."
So I actually don’t think it’d hurt that much because I don’t think the enemy would ever believe that anybody would be stupid enough to give a date – "We’re leaving on this date." And then he left. They said, "He was serious!" They pulled back. They pulled back. Then you see what happened. They pulled back then they went in with fury.
But how about the 50 soldiers. He sent a couple of months ago, a few months ago, he sent 50 of our finest and instead of just sending them quietly, quietly sending them. What does he do? He sends them in and he makes a big press conference or announcement that "We are sending 50 soldiers in Iraq, Syria" and these soldiers have a big target on their backs.
Why can’t we just keep our mouths shut? Why can’t we be unpredictable? Unpredictable? Right? Why can’t we be unpredictable?
Why does he have to tell – first of all, it doesn’t even sound good when you say "50 soldiers" because it sounds like so small. People would say, "Is that good or bad?" I mean, that sounds small.
But then when you think about it, why do we have to say that?
These are extraordinary people. These are our finest. And they’re, you know, very dangerous missions. Why would you tell people that we’re sending them in? You just keep quiet and let them accomplish something.
They are right now – who knows what’s happened to them? But right now, they have a big target on their back.
People that we’ve let go of at Gitmo have now killed Americans. You’ve seen that. You saw that yesterday. That came out yesterday. We let people go out of Gitmo and they kill Americans. Okay. Is anybody surprised at that though? Would anybody be surprised?
And we’re keeping it open. Now they’re spending, you know, hundreds of millions to run it. I guarantee you could run it a lot cheaper. You’d have a lot of money left over.
So we’re going to get efficiency in government. But we’re going to end Obamacare. We’re going to replace it with something so much better and so much less expensive.
We’re going to get rid of Common Core. We’re going to bring our education local.
We are going to preserve our Second Amendment. It’s under siege. It’s totally under siege.
And Christianity is under siege. I’ll tell you, Christianity is under siege.
You take a look. I’m with the – I’ll tell you what. I’ve been with so many pastors lately and Jerry Falwell Jr. was an example – was telling me that – first of all, he told me something that "You remind me so much of my father." I thought his father was a great guy. What his father did with Liberty College and Liberty University. And Jerry to top it off has taken it to a whole new place.
But when Jerry was so strong and so great.
But I was talking to – I probably had 50 of the ministers and pastors, different folks came up to my office, and they’re really under tremendous pressure because they don’t want to have their tax exempt status taken away. This happened during the Lyndon Johnson presidency.
And I said, "Why is it that you folks are pushed around so much?" Christianity. These are the pastors. These are strong people. These are really strong people. "Why do you allow that? Why aren’t you more forceful?"
And finally, somebody said, "Well, we have to be a little careful of our tax exempt status."
I said when did that happen exactly? It was during the Johnson.
Well, we’re going to try to get rid of that. Okay? Because that’s really terrible.
We’re going to try getting rid of – and I’ve said that to a lot of evangelicals, a lot of great Christians. We’re going to try to get rid of it because it sort of means somebody walking down the street has more power than somebody of religion, of our religion, of Christianity, somebody that’s an evangelical.
You take anybody they have more power because these people are powerless.
They’ve actually taken their right of free speech away.
So I said we’re going to try to get rid of that and I think we’ll be very, very successful.
You know, it’s interesting. I said how many Christians are there? Because you know, we’ve got men, we’ve got women. You cut it in half, we’ve actually have a few more women. But we are far more Christians than we have men or women. So in a way, it’s the most powerful lobbyist – the biggest group of people.
But they’re not allowed to talk because they’re petrified.
You saw what was happening with the IRS and what was taking place with regard to certain groups.
So we are going to try and usually when I say try that means I’m going to get it done. That means I’m going to get it done.
But we are going to try very hard. We are going to get that brought back and I think it’s going to be very hard to counter it.
Because if the Christians, and if the whole evangelical Christian sector gets together, nobody, nobody can beat –
You know, when I made the statement about banning Muslims on a temporary basis, I took such heat.
Now people are saying, "You know, Trump is sort of right about that." Now they’re all going, "Wow" because they see what’s happening.
And I think if I would have said it about Christians, I think I would have had less opposition. That’s what’s happened in this country. That’s what’s happened in our country.
And we can’t let it happen. We’re going to turn this country around and we’re going to be the smart people. We’re not going to be the dummies anymore.
We’re not going to be where China made last year trade deficits $505 billion. Japan over $100 billion. Mexico $58 billion.
We’re going to build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall. Okay?
...Recently, I was in Florida and Marco, who’s a nice guy actually. You notice how nice they are after you’ve defeated them?
I like everybody I defeat.
But when I ran against Marco, it was supposed to be...well, he started it. Right? Just like Cruz started the last deal. He started it.
But Marco came after me very viciously. You know he wanted to be Don Rickles, right? And it didn’t work.
But what happened is I won by 20 points – almost 20 points – and a lot of these issue we were talking about it was big issues. And frankly, I wish I would have left about two days earlier. I wanted to stay in Florida campaign. I wish I would have devoted two more days to Ohio because I almost won in Ohio. I would have won in Ohio but I didn’t want to take a chance leaving my beautiful Florida because I love Florida and I wanted to win that.
So if I would have left a couple of days early, I think I would have won Florida the same.
But I’m not going to have anything happen in Wisconsin. We have to win.
If we – look, we have to put these politicians in their place, folks. It’s time.
And believe me, you know, Cruz likes to pretend he’s an outsider and in the meantime he gets all the establishment support, including your governor.
So believe me, believe me, they’re all establishment.
And frankly in a way it’s worse because Cruz is establishment and yet he’s got no relationship with the establishment.
He goes and he stands on the floor of the Senate for a day and a half and he filibusters, and these Senators – look, I know. They’re tough cookies. I have the best – I have one of the great people – Sen. Jeff Sessions, who’s great.
Nobody better than Jeff.
And you know, Cruz thought he was going to have him and used him in his speech – "Sen. Jeff Sessions" – and then he comes out and he endorses me.
But when you think of it, look, out of all of these Senators, he has one supporter – Lee – who’s his friend. I mean, he’s his friend. And by the way took him plenty time to do it.
But you know, to stand there and to rant and rave for two days to show people you can filibuster, in the meantime, nothing was accomplished.
Cruz has not accomplished one thing.
So he’s an insider but it’s almost like the man on the street because he can’t get anything done.
He dislikes people. He calls people like for instance he said horrible things about the Speaker and you know about the Speaker and he said about separately Mitch McConnell.
I mean, he said some terrible things about – how do you get things done when you’re calling Mitch McConnell bad names. Okay? Let’s just say bad names.
So he’s sort of got the worst of all elements. He’s an insider totally but he can get nothing done. Okay? He can get nothing done.
Your new Speaker – how do you like Paul Ryan? How do you like him?
Wow. I was told be nice to Paul Ryan because – really?
Well, he’s the Speaker. He’s a nice guy. He called me the other day. He was very nice.
But I’m very surprised at this statement. Wow. Are you all Republicans? Are you mostly conservatives?
...I always say I’m just a common sense conservative. And so, so important – common sense.
And somebody told me today that somebody else – I think, Walker – used my term.
You know, Walker used – I said, "Make America great again." I said, "Make America great again", and I copyrighted the term.
And then Walker was making a speech many months ago when he first started and he was saying "Make America great again" because he saw the response that I got. The difference is he didn’t get any response. So then no.
But we told him he can’t do that. That was the first real problem I had with him...
Now, I said a common sense conservative and today I heard he used the term because the press was up and they interviewed me and they said he said he’s a common sense conservative.
Well, I coined the phrase a few months ago. That’s what I am. I am a conservative.
I’m very, very conservative on the military. I’m very conservative with our vets and on health care and on lots of things.
But – and I’m actually very conservative on trade but a lot of people would say "He’s not that conservative on trade because he doesn’t believe in free trade." Well, actually I do believe in free trade. But it’s got to be good trade for us, right? It’s got to be smart trade.
It can’t be where Wisconsin is losing thousands and thousands of jobs where you folks can’t get into China but China comes in here like it’s Swiss cheese. That’s what happens.
You know, China does not obey the rules.
Now, I get along great with China. I made a fortune dealing with China. I have two buildings because of China. Big ones in New York and one in San Francisco – Bank of America – that I have in partnership with a great company. And it’s because of China. I sell – I have one of the big leases with one of their big banks – with the biggest bank in the world actually from China.
I sell millions of millions of condos to people from China. I like China.
I’m not angry China. I like them. I think their leaders are doing a great job for them.
But our leaders are doing a bad job for us.
Same with Mexico. I get along great. The Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. But their leaders are killing us on the border and they’re killing us on trade.
And I’m not angry at them. I’m angry at our country and our leadership because it’s grossly incompetent and we’re going to change it around and we’re going to get the best and we’re going to get the finest.
...So whatever you can do to spread the world, I’ll be around. I’m going to Green Bay. I love their team, by the way. You talk about a great franchise. No, I love it.
And you have a truly great quarterback. I don’t know. He’s probably endorsing somebody else but I don’t care. He’s still a great quarterback.
Tom Brady’s a friend of mine. He said you have a great quarterback. That’s all right with me. When Tom says he’s a great quarterback that’s pretty good.
But you know, I really want to win Wisconsin because if we could win Wisconsin, we’re going to put all of this stupidity away.
We’re going to put these stupid, stupid people that allow and I’m talking about basically politicians, and in many cases, you know a lot of times people will see deals that are done and I mean take a look at the Iran deal. How bad is that I mean, just as a deal...
But many times people will say deals that the country makes, and they’ll say, "How can our politicians be so stupid?" They’re not stupid. They’re being hit by the lobbyists and the special interests and they make a fortune. Okay? They get tremendous campaign contributions. They’re not stupid. They’re doing it for themselves.
So again, I’m not doing that. I’m doing for you. I’m working for you.
But just remember, they’re not so stupid like you think.
But when you look at the people funding Cruz’s campaign and Kasich’s campaign, and you look – don’t forget – Cruz said, "Oh the banks, the banks." You know, he’s going to be Robin Hood. He’s going to be this great guy.
And then in her personal financial disclosure form, he forgot to mention that he borrowed about a million dollars from the banks – Citibank and Goldman Sachs. He borrowed a million dollars at an interest rate that everybody in this room would be proud to have – a very low interest rate. Almost no interest. He forgot to announce it on his personal financial disclosure form. He just forgot. He said, "Oh, I forgot. I forgot."
Okay? So then he hits the banks. He’s controlled by these people, folks. Okay? I mean, what he did was absolutely wrong. But they’re controlled by these people.
I’m controlled by you. I’m going to do the right thing for you. Okay? So remember that.
...
Q&A
22 veterans a day commit suicide. That’s correct.
We’re going to take care of our veterans so much. Look, let me tell you, they – many of them kill themselves waiting for a doctor. They can’t even get to see the doctor. You know that. They end up killing themselves before they see the doctor.
22 a day and a lot of people don’t even believe that number. They think it’s almost like an impossible number – how can it be so bad? – and it actually could be even worse than that.
We are going to take care of them. From their standpoint, they wait, they wait, then they get bad service, then they wait some more – six, seven, eight days.
And sometimes they’ll see the doctor and the doctor says, "I can’t see you now. I’m going on vacation."
You see the corruptness.
I just left Phoenix – 21,000 people. Sheriff Joe was there. The job he did was incredible. Incredible.
You know they had a little protest. Right? That protest ended so quickly. He arrested three people; everyone else scattered.
You know, and you have that kind of a Sheriff here. You have a tough cookie here. I can tell you. I just met him and I can tell you.
But you know I have a great policy plan and I’ve gotten a lot of credit for it and it’s on DonaldJTrump.com. And with the veterans when they’re waiting for exorbitant time – even for a little time – they’re going to go to the doctor. They’re going to go to local doctors or local hospitals.
Many of the hospitals are dying for business. You know that they’re dying. Some of these hospitals are dying. They’re going to get immediate treatment, immediate service, we’re going to pay the bills, and we’re going to save a fortune, and they’re going to get great service.
And everybody is in love with it. Everybody loves it. And that’s what’s going to happen. So we’re going to take care of our veterans.
If we can’t take care of our veterans, we can’t take care of anyone. So we’re going to take care of our vets.
Boy, do you look good though. You look good and tough. I wouldn’t want to fight you.
Do you think I can take you in a fight? I don’t think so.
How about we do it right now? That would be great for television...
Go ahead.
...Let me tell you this. Our veterans are taken worse care of than illegal immigrants who come in our country...You don’t even have to write it down. We’re going to do things about it.
You know what you’re saying? I’ve heard this so many times before with the daycare and everything else. We are going to take care of our vets.
By the ways, speaking of increase, Cruz and Kasich want to destroy your Social Security, folks, okay?
I want to bring money back into this country. I want to bring jobs into this country. I want to bring tremendous wealth into this country. I want to take our wealth back from China, from Mexico, from all of these countries that have our wealth. They’ve taken them like we’re a bunch of babies.
And we’re going to save your Social Security and we’re going to save your Medicare. They want to get rid of it. Okay? Remember that.
...
I want to use not too many executive orders folks. You know, because executive orders came about more recently. Nobody ever heard of an executive order.
Then all of a sudden Obama, because he couldn’t get anybody to agree with him and he start signing them like they’re butter.
So I want to do away with executive orders for the most part.
But look, just do me a favor. Stick with me. You’re going to be okay. All right?
...I know, what you’ve said I’ve heard a hundred times and daycare is a huge problem. Huge problem. And your wife not working? Huge problem – she can’t. So anyway, I bet you have a great wife. Good wife? Better believe it.
...We’re ending Common Core. You’re not going to be educated – your kids in Wisconsin are no longer going to be educated in Washington, D.C. by bureaucrats – many of whom – I can’t say all – but many of whom don’t care for your kids. They couldn’t care less. They get big, fat salaries. Your kids are going to be educated locally.
We’re terminating Common Core, and you will see something that’s magic. And I’ve seen it where parents and all of these people – the uncles, the aunts – they’re all on the school boards. They get professionals. They have great principals.
You can’t see what’s going on from Washington, D.C. Many of the people never even come here. They sit behind their desk in Washington. They draw big salaries. And they’re telling you how to educate their kids. Not going to happen that way.
And I’ve even seen it where they keep graduates – the child graduates and those parents stay on. They love it because their child went through the system. They love it and they become so good at it. That’s what’s going to happen.
We’re one of the worst in the world in education. We’re going to be one of the better ones. Not necessarily – you know, I don’t know that we’re going to beat Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and China. But we’re going to come very close.
Discipline in schools. I don’t think that Wisconsin should have a big problem with discipline. You have a big problem with discipline?
...Well, we have to get discipline back in the country, forget about school. We have to get discipline –
I mean, I have a case. I have a wonderful guy – campaign manager. You talk about discipline. And you probably saw what happened today with my campaign manager. He’s a good guy. Corey.
And by the way, the easiest thing – "Corey, you’re fired." I can’t do that. Can’t do it.
So fortunately, I have a taping system. You know, very – I’m rich so I have tapes all over.
So this young woman who complained, was all – she was talking about being maybe thrown to the floor and all this. I said, "Oh, that’s horrible." And then we saw the tapes.
Did anybody see the tape? What did you think? Right? Nothing.
Women – what did you think?
I mean, she wasn’t like – her face stayed the same.
If somebody squeezed your arm or did something really bad – don’t forget – initially she said thrown to the floor. But if somebody squeezed your arm or hurt you, wouldn’t you start screaming or something?
Did you see any change in her face?
...It’s horrible. It’s horrible. Honestly, it’s horrible.
And the best thing I could do is say – but I can’t destroy a man. I’d destroy him. Got a beautiful wife and children and I’m not going to destroy a man for that.
And you know what? When I saw that at the tape, at first I said, "Oh, this is terrible." Then I saw the tape. It’s my tape. I’m the one that had the tape. It’s on the ceiling of this incredible club in Jupiter, Florida, and we’re all leaving and we have a press conference. Right?
And the press conference lasted a long time. It was like 45 minutes. So that was enough.
I’m leaving with a whole big gang of people. People pushing left and right, left and right.
And all of a sudden, she bolts into the picture. She grabs me or hits me on the arm. In fact, I’m like this with my arm up and then he goes by and maybe he touched her a little bit. But I didn’t – it was almost like he was trying to keep her off me. Right?
Like he was helping her. And did you see her fall to the ground?
Okay, because she talked about falling to – now after, I must tell you, her statement changed big league because she said go to the ground. You know, all this. I could read it to you. Does anybody want to hear it?
I mean, I want to be accurate because I’d like the press to treat me.
So before she knew she was on tape, she said "I was jolted backwards."
Was she jolted backwards? I mean, if she was, her face stayed the same. I mean.
"I was jolted backwards. Someone grabbed me tightly by the arm and yanked me me down. Campaign managers aren’t supposed to forcefully throw reporters to the ground, except she never went to the ground. She never even came – flinched.
She didn’t – you know, if somebody grabbed you even one of the guys, even the bikers, if somebody grabs even a biker or punches you a little bit, you’re "Whoa!" Right? I mean, the toughest guy, the toughest woman. Look at her face. It’s zero.
They’re going to destroy a man’s life?
And then I have Cruz saying, "Oh, that was a terrible thing. That was a terrible thing."
Let me tell you something, folks. If I win, if I lose, I didn’t need to do this. I’m doing this because I just had a beautiful grandchild with Ivanka. Ivanka and Jared – beautiful, beautiful grandchild. It’s my eighth. I’m doing this all for them.
I didn’t need to do this. This is not so easy. And I had no idea. You know, maybe none of us did. You know, I had no idea the message was going to get across. It’s a message of competence. It really is. It’s a message of common sense and it’s a message of competence.
And I had no idea that we’d have millions of more votes than we had when we had that stiff Mitt Romney – a total stiff – who by the way he’s a dope. He’s not a smart person. I’ll tell you right now.
Let me tell you about Mitt Romney. That was an election he should have won and he lost. And he should just go away and let the big boys do it now because you know what? That’s an election that should have been won.
And I’ll tell you what. I helped John McCain and at that time, honestly, that was a tough deal for him because the world was sort of collapsing. But he lost.
And I helped Mitt Romney a lot and he lost. And I said, "This time, we’re going to do it ourselves. We’re going to win. We’re going to win." So just remember that.
We’re going to win because of Wisconsin, I hope...
Right! She’s so smart. I don’t want them to know. I don’t want to tell Putin what I’m thinking. She’s so smart.
What you just said...what about Ukraine? Don’t worry about Ukraine. Ukraine is going to be fine. Just don’t ask me why.
You know, this world of politics – "Mr. Trump, you said -" don’t forget I’m the one that said take the oil. I was right. They didn’t take the oil. You know who has the oil right now? ISIS has the oil.
You know, that Libya – ISIS has all that oil from Gaddafi, all of that big oil from Gaddafi. He took it. We’re like a bunch of dummies.
Why aren’t we embargoing? Why aren’t we creating a nice big circle so they can’t get the oil out? Why aren’t we taking that oil back?
Look, look, look, I’m the one that says though I don’t want to say everything.
If I win, I have a good chance of winning. I’m the frontrunner by a lot. I want to go in there. I want to knock the hell out of ISIS. I don’t want to tell all. I really mean this.
I don’t want to tell everybody in this room – and look at all the cameras that are going now – I don’t want to tell the world what I’m going to do because they’re watching.
Just let me do it folks. I will do it. You would be so happy. You don’t have to know the details. Okay? Let me do it.
You know, I used the word before. We have to be a little bit unpredictable. We can’t say, "Well, we’re going and attack on March 14th and then we’re going to hit them from the front and then we’re going to hit them from the back."
You know, Obama did that eight months ago with one of the cities. He said, "We’re going in next week."
Look, folks, folks, folks, you know, you have to trust – there has to be some trust. Right? Do you trust?
We’ve got to stop the stupid. That’s why I really think your question is so great – "I don’t want to hear how you’re going to do it, Mr. Trump. Just do it." I’ll do it. Okay?
I love that. That woman! That woman! Thank you, honey. Thank you.
Okay. I can see why.
Woman:
Thank you. You have been – I just want to say thank you. You saved me in so many ways.
In recent years, I’ve been struggling with an incurable illness and I’m on home care now. It’s caused by a doctor’s medical negligence.
And in those dark days fighting – right now all the tubes have been removed and I have a Do Not Resuscitate Order and I have a seven-year-old son – in those days in the hospital, I received from you a handwritten letter that said, "To the bravest woman I know."
I remember that. I remember that. Such a wonderful, beautiful woman. I mean, just an amazing woman.
And are you coming along okay?
Woman:
No, sir. But that’s okay because I’m here right now to thank you in person and that was my biggest dream.
And I wanted to thank you because through you and your organizations, my son who’s Mexican-American, seven-years-old, through your organization and just being able to stand on that stage with you back in 2005 the outpouring of love that can from that ultimately provided my son when he graduates high school with a full ride to college.
That’s great. And you know what we’ll do? We’re going to watch him. You’re going to watch him. We’re going to be watching your boy. Okay? But you’re going to be hopefully around. You’re not going to have to have anybody watching. You’re going to hopefully be around. Those doctors are going to be so wrong. But we’ll be helping you.
Woman:
So we thank you. God bless you. And just, you know, he’s a Mexican-American, and you because of your efforts have sent him to college. And I have been writing letters to him for when I’m in heaven to tell him that what you’ve done for him now he has a great responsibility to pay it forward just as you have done for us.
That’s so nice. Thank you.
I have to go down and say hello. Is that okay?
...Very sad but I think it’s going to be really a story of hope and something that is really great is going to happen out of that. You watch.
But it sort of tells me when I first said this people would say, "Oh, it will cost a lot." Forgetting about the campaign. That’s peanuts by comparison. You know, I’ve spent tens of millions of dollars.
But the big thing – I lost certain businesses and I owned the Miss Universe Pageant. I bought it very inexpensively many years ago – 15 years ago – and because of the fact that they thought I was against this woman or that one, I had a hard time with television.
Now, the good news is I sold it for a wonderful – I was very happy with that. But I didn’t want to sell it. But I sold it and I built it to really a great company. We did a great job with that company – Miss Universe, Miss USA, Miss Teen USA.
But other businesses – I sort of – like the shirts and the ties with Macy’s. Macy’s was unbelievably disloyal because of illegal immigration and they ended the shirts, ties. Who care? I mean, that’s not a big deal.
But I’m doing something – nobody is giving up what I’m giving.
I mean, when Cruz runs, he runs. If he wins, great. If he loses, great. You know, it’s him. He’s a politician. They just – they run, they win, they lose, who knows?
But these guys run for office. That’s all they do.
I’ve always heard that if you’re a very successful person, you can’t run for office, especially for president. You just can’t run for president, and I can see it. I have so much false press about me. Things that are so false.
You know, I saw the other day on television, there were like 56,000 negative ads on me. 56,000.
In fact, in Florida, I own Doral and in Florida we had the tournament there two weeks. Adam Scott – the great Adam Scott – the great golfer. He was winning. And in between shots, I told you this after the victory speech, in between they have commercials and they were all about Trump. Negative, horrible, negative commercials. Mostly false. Mostly. Not all false. But mostly false, I have to be honest.
But it came out the other day, I think it said "$68 million, 55,000 negative ads." Negative ads.
And when I was running in Florida, I said "How is it possible to win?" I mean, with all of this because I knew it. You couldn’t turn on in Florida where I was you couldn’t turn on the television without seeing Trump commercials. Sometimes four or five in a row. And they were horrendous. Done by very, very bad people. Very bad, evil people.
And I said, "How it is possible to win?"
And God helped me. Honestly. Because I won in a landslide. I won by almost 20%.
And now they’re doing it here. Club for Growth. It’s a crooked outfit.
Look, Club for Growth – you ever hear this? Club for Growth – a friend of mine, he’s a conservative guy. He goes would you do me a favor? See Club for Growth. I said, "What’s Club for Growth?" He said, "They want to talk to you." I said, "All right. Send them up." He’s a friend. He’s a good guy. And now I’m in politics so I have to see people I wouldn’t normally...
So Club for Growth, they come up to my office. This guy was I think a former Congressman. And he tells me a little bit about Club for Growth and I’m falling asleep. And then he goes, "$1 million." And I said, "$1 million for what? I don’t even know you. I’ve never met you." I said, "Do me a favor." I’m trying to be nice and I said, "Go back and write me a little note if you can." And he was stupid enough to write me a note.
He writes me a letter asking for $1 million. I let him know that I’m not interested. You could be rich. I’d rather take a million and throw it all over this room. I’d rather give it to you, to your boy.
...They write me a letter. It’s like extortion. They asked me for a $1 million. I said no nicely. And then they’re doing ads all over Wisconsin. Club for Growth. They did it all over Florida. Club for Growth. About eminent domain.
By the way, without eminent domain, you wouldn’t have highways, you wouldn’t have hospitals, you wouldn’t have bridges. You need eminent domain. If something’s in your way and you’re building a highway, if you’re producing 7,000 jobs and you need a little corner of someone’s property, every once in a while.
You know, it’s funny. These guys all want the Keystone Pipeline. Right? Everyone. Conservatives. Conservatives want the Keystone Pipeline. I like the Keystone Pipeline too. But they have a whole big thing on eminent domain in their prospectus because without eminent domain, they wouldn’t go 15 feet. They wouldn’t be able to build it.
So, they don’t want eminent domain. They do commercials about eminent domain. They love the Keystone Pipeline, and the whole Keystone Pipeline is based around eminent domain because you’ve got to go from Canada, where Cruz was born, to Texas, where he’s representing. Think of it.
This guy – and don’t forget that. Remember what I said. I’m going to win. Just remember what I said. I’m going to win. And I thank you...
I’m going to win. But remember this. If for some reason he does, he gets the nomination, the first thing – remember, I’m a good prognosticator, I’m a good predictor – the first thing that’s going to happen is the Democrats are going to sue Ted Cruz. He was born in Canada. He lived there for four years. The head of the Harvard Law School, one of the top people in the business in terms of Constitution, is saying that, you know, he’s wrong. And we have a bunch of other people that are much stronger than even that.
Remember this. If Cruz gets lucky and wins, and the only way he can get lucky is if he doesn’t get – because it’s all establishment. You know, if I go into that whole mess of the convention, I’m not the establishment. I don’t take their money. I don’t hire their people. I don’t do any of that stuff. Okay? So you have a disadvantage.
But if Cruz wins, remember what I said. Just remember. Again, he’s not going to win. But if he does, he gets the nomination, within the first few days he will be sued by the Democrats that he doesn’t have the right to be president. And I think they’re right because he wasn’t born on our soil. He wasn’t born. He’s not a natural born citizen. He’s not a natural born citizen.
I don’t like to make a big deal of this but it was just brought up by somebody. He is not a natural born citizen. So if for some reason he should get the nomination, I really believe you’re wasting your time and boy do we have a problem because you’re going to have somebody that’s going to be sued, probably will lose the lawsuit.
Again, he was born there, lived there for four years, mother was there, the whole thing for a long period of time, and he was a Canadian citizen joint with U.S. until 14 or 15 months ago. Did anyone know that? So he was a senator from Texas, only because of the great Sarah Palin by the way, without Sarah Palin, he could have never won that election. It was a fluke. But he was a Senator from Texas. He lived – he was a joint citizen. Now, he finally gave up his citizenship to Canada like 16 months ago. He said, "Oh, I didn’t know I was a citizen of Canada also." Just like he didn’t know that Goldman Sachs and Citibank gave him money. I mean, this guy is – you just have to study him, folks.
Look, again, I’m doing this. We’re going to win. We’re going to turn this country around. We’re going to make America great again. We’re going to win a lot. But you have to know the facts.
I love you all. I love you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Get out there and vote! Thank you!
Thank you. Thank you! Thank you very much everybody. This was an amazing evening. This was a great evening.
They just announced North Carolina.
I don’t know if they’ve even announced Illinois yet but we’re leading by a lot so I think they’re going to announce it.
Florida was so amazing.
And I want to thank our friends. Northern Marianas Islands have been so incredible, and we picked up nine delegates this morning. I heard very early in the morning – nine delegates. That’s a lot.
And I just wanted to thank the governor, Ralph Torres, great guy, Chairman Ada who was a fantastic man and that was a very nice start to the day. That I can tell you.
Many things have been happening over the last short period of time.
CNN was very nice. They came up with a poll. The poll said 49% to 14% and 15%.
We just had one from the Economist just came out – 53%.
And it was sort of interesting because I was watching the news a little while ago and one of the commentators, who I’m not particularly fond of but these are minor details, said "But Donald Trump doesn’t get over 50%" because I’m at 43%, 45%.
Actually now according to the Economist, I’m at 53%.
And I have to explain to these people they don’t understand basic physics, basic mathematics, basic whatever you want to call it. When I don’t get over 50%, we have four people. Right? We have four people. Do you understand that?
So when I get 53% – and this one is an example, I had 53% and that’s with four people. That’s an achievement just mathematically when you can get over 50%.
So someday, someday they’re going to understand, someday when we take it all, they’ll understand. But it is really ridiculous.
I want to thank my family. My boy, Eric and Don. They’ve been working so hard.
Ivanka and Jared have been amazing. Ivanka’s home right now. In about two minutes, I’ll call her. She’s about to have a baby so I don’t know. We’ve been thinking about that now for a little while but Ivanka has been so helpful and Jared has been amazing and it’s been just great.
I want to thank Barron for putting up with the fact that I never see him anymore. And I want to thank Barron. I never see my Barron and it’s his birthday on Sunday so we’re very happy about that.
So it’s a little tough. You know, we’re going away and he goes, "When are you going to be come home, daddy? When are you coming home?" I said, "Well, in about two and a half weeks." It’s been pretty tough.
You’re traveling all over the place. It’s really amazing. Yesterday I went up to Ohio. I went up to Youngstown.
We had an incredible crowd and just amazing people in this country. We have so, so many great people.
We will someday in the not so distant future if I win – otherwise it’s not going to happen I have to be honest with you. But Apple and all of these great companies will be making their product in the United States, not in China, Vietnam and all of –
And we’re not going to be losing our companies. You know, our companies are leaving our country rapidly, rapidly, whether it’s Carrier air conditioning, whether it’s Ford, whether it’s Eaton.
I was in Cleveland and Eaton Corp. they’re leaving and so many companies are leaving. And frankly, I’m disgusted with it and I’m tired of seeing it and there’s no reason for it. It’s just gross incompetence at the highest level. We should not allow it to happen. Pfizer, great company, pharmaceutical company, they’re going to Ireland.
And there’s so many more. You have corporate inversions. You have people who can’t get their money back into the country because the politicians can’t get along. They can’t make a deal.
Everybody agrees – Democrat and Republican – everybody agrees the money should come back...trillion dollars outside of this country. Everybody agrees that the money should be here and the politicians for three years haven’t been able to make a deal.
And we could make a deal. There’s an example of something that you could do if I sat down with a few of the senators, a few of the congressmen, you could make a deal on that in 10 minutes if you know what you’re doing because everybody wants to do it.
And companies are actually leaving our country to get their money, not only because our taxes are too high, which we’re going to lower by the way. But companies are leaving our country in order to go and get money that’s their money because there’s no way of bringing it in.
So, we’ve got a long way to go. But I think at some point it’s going to get done. This has been very exciting, this whole process.
We started, I was one of 17 people – senators, governors. I’ve had such great support. Dr. Ben Carson the other day endorsed us. Great guy. Great guy. Wonderful man. And Chris Christie endorsed us. That was so incredible.
And today Pam Bondi came up and endorsed us. She was great. She is a truly wonderful woman, of the job she’s done in Florida is incredible.
You know, so many – we’ve had such incredible support. Paul Ryan called me the other day – tremendous call. I spoke with Mitch McConnell today. We had a great conversation.
The fact is we have to bring our party together. We have to bring it together.
We have something happening that actually makes the Republican Party probably the biggest political story anywhere in the world. Everybody’s writing about it all over Europe, all over the world they’re talking about it.
Millions of people are coming in to vote. This was an example of it today. Many, many more people. I’m looking at the polling booths. I’m looking at the different polling booths all around the country where it’s up. And the lines are four, five, six blocks long. And the woman – one woman was there for 40 years. She’s been working the polls. And she said, "We’d have two people here. We’d have three people. Now look at the line." And the line looked like it was, you know, long. It was really long. Five deep and long. And it’s just a different thing.
We have a great opportunity and the people that are voting are Democrats are coming in, Independents are coming in, and very, very importantly, people that never voted before. It’s an incredible thing.
I want to pay my respects by the way to Todd Palin, Sarah’s husband. Sarah was here. She was incredible. She was making a speech on my behalf and fantastic and everybody loves her. And what happened is he was in a very bad accident. He’s tough as nails. He’s going to be fine. But I just wanted to pay my respects by the way to Todd.
So, our theme when we started and Melania and I came down. Yeah, sit down everybody. Please. I mean, this is Mar-a-Lago. We give you seats. You don’t have to stand. I’m looking at all these people.
Cory, good job, Cory. Good job. And Hope and our whole squad. Right?
So when this began, Melania and I and I said, "Got to do it." And she was so supportive and she’s been so supportive. It’s been amazing. And we have to do it.
We came down the escalator and it was about trade and it was about borders. And what happened is pretty quickly after that and we were – we shot right up. I shot right to the top of the polls and have been leading in the polls almost from the beginning without fail.
We went up in June. Most people said I’ll never run. He’s just going to have fun. He’s having a good time. This isn’t necessarily – I mean, I’m having a good time. You know, I’m having a very nice time. But you know what? I’m working very hard and there is great anger. Believe me. There is great anger.
One of the broadcasters was saying, "Is there anger?" And I said...I was supposed to say, "No, there’s not. We love the way things are working. We love the deal you made with Iran. It’s wonderful. You give them $150 billion. We get nothing. We love all the deals. The trade deals are wonderful. You lose $500 billion a year with China. We lose $58 billion a year in terms of imbalance. It’s a total imbalance."
We don’t make good deals anymore. We don’t win anymore. As a country, we don’t win anymore.
And they asked, "Is there anger from your people?" ...They’re not angry people but they want to see the country properly run. They want to see borders. They want to see good health care. They want to see things properly taken care of. They want our military rebuilt. Our military is in a very bad state. They want it rebuilt. Very, very importantly, and they want the Second Amendment by the way protected and protected strongly and that’s going to happen.
And you know what they want so badly? They want our veterans taken care of. Our veterans are treated so badly.
So, we started and something happened called Paris. Paris happened and Paris was a disaster. That was – there have been many disasters. But it was Paris.
And then we had a case in Los Angeles where it was in California where the 14 young people were killed. And it just goes on and on and on.
And what happened with me is this whole run took on a whole new meaning, not just borders, not just good trade deals. We’re going to make the best trade deals you’ve ever seen.
We’ve got such endorsements from Carl Icahn and the smartest people in business. And these people are going to be negotiating our deals and they’re the best in the world. We have the best business people in the world. We’re going to have such great deals. We’re going to do so good with trade. We’re going to do so good on the border.
But it took on a whole new meaning, and the meaning was very simple. We need protection in our country and that’s going to happen and all of a sudden the poll numbers shot up. And I’m just very proud to be a part of this.
I think we’re going to go. We’re going to go on a lot of trips over the next month but I think we’re going to have a great victory.
And I think more importantly than anything else we are going to start winning again. This country is going to start winning again. We don’t win anymore.
We don’t win with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We’re going to knock the hell out of them.
We don’t win at trade – China, everybody, Japan, Mexico, Vietnam, India, name the country. Anybody we deal, anybody we do business with beats us. We don’t win at trade. We’re going to win at trade. We’re going to make our country rich again. We’re going to make our country great again. And we need the rich in order to make the great, I’m sorry to tell you.
So, I’m going forward. We had a fantastic evening. I would have never thought this could have happened. I guess we’re waiting for one result which possibly will be very successful also.
But to win the states that we’ve won and to win by the margins and especially, look, this is my second home, Florida. To win by that kind of a number is incredible. It’s record-setting.
And I have to say that number one, I want to congratulate Marco Rubio on having run a really tough campaign. He’s tough. He’s smart. And he’s got a great future. He’s got a great future.
But I have to say and nobody has ever, ever in the history of politics received the kind of negative advertising that I have. Record, record, record. By the way, mostly false. I wouldn’t say 100% but about 90%. Mostly false, vicious, horrible.
They said it was $18 million the first week, meaning last week, and $25 million. It added up to over $40 million.
And you explain it to me because I can’t – my numbers went up. I don’t understand it. Nobody understands it. My numbers went up.
I mean, it’s been an interesting experience. Last week, Adam Scott won at the Trump National Doral. Won the big tournament, the world championship of golf. And Adam, who’s a great guy – I guess a lot of you folks saw that – but I’m watching...we have television screens all over. We’re down at this gorgeous green at Doral and everything is working beautifully and then a commercial comes on. The worst commercial and I’m with these wonderful people from Cadillac and all these top executives, and I’m saying, "Look over there! Look! Don’t watch it. Don’t. You don’t want to watch it." I’m saying, "Isn’t the grass beautiful? Look! Look! Don’t watch."
And they came in waves one after another after another and it was brutal.
And then Adam comes in. He’s this handsome kid from Australia, one of the greatest golfers in the world, made an unbelievable shot on the 18th hole to win the tournament. He’s a great champion. And we’re giving the award.
And just before we break for a commercial, "We’ll be right back with our great champion from Australia, Adam Scott" and here’s the commercial and I said, "No!" And it was two of them – two of them. Oh, what a day that was. What a disaster. What a disaster. Unbelievable.
So again, I just want to congratulate everybody. This is a really interesting process. It’s an amazing process. It’s very tough. But it is – by the end, if you get to the end, you can handle a lot of things including pressure because there’s nothing like it. Lies, deceit, viciousness, disgusting reporters, horrible people. It’s true. Some are nice. Some are nice. Some really disgusting people back there.
And I just want to say we’re going to go forward and we’re going to win. But more importantly, we’re going to win for the country. We’re going to win, win, win, and we’re not stopping. We’re going to have great victories for our country.
Thank you very much everybody! Thank you!
...So it’s so important. You getting out to vote. It’s just so important because our country has been taken away from us. It’s going so fast.
And you know, you’re talking about Second Amendment because I was asking with Randy and a lot of people, I was talking to some of the people before, "What would you like me to focus on?" and they said, "Just Second Amendment. Second Amendment."
Now, the Second Amendment means a lot of other things too...The Second Amendment in under siege. You know that. You know that very well.
We lost a great Supreme Court justice and nobody thought this was going to be part of the equation. And all of a sudden if somebody gets in that’s the wrong person, they’ll take away that Second Amendment so fast your head will spin.
You see Bloomberg is somebody that wants to knock out the Second Amendment. Hillary is a disaster on the Second Amendment. No, they want to take it away.
So, it’s just not going to happen. It’s not going to happen.
...But we lost our wonderful justice who was a great man and a great Second Amendment person.
I just heard coming up, you know, the Senators. We’ve been very disappointed. I’m a Republican. Many of you are Republicans. But we’re not being protected whether it’s a budget. You saw the budget that was approved a month ago. It was approved by the Republicans. They gave it away. They gave Obama everything.
So Obama wants to put in a Supreme Court judge. He said he wants – he’s going to be a very negative person to guns because that’s the way it is, okay? Believe me, that will be the way it is. And basically they don’t have the right to do that.
But I keep saying, "Well, are the Republicans going to fail or are they going to crack? What’s going to happen?" And coming up today, I hear, "Well, there could be a way of Obama pushing it through." Here we go, right? Here we go.
Same thing you heard with Obamacare. It’s going to be defeated. It’s going to be repealed. We’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Believe me.
But – I mean, look what’s going on with your premiums. 35%, 45%, 55% up. Your deductible is so high. I mean, you’ve got to see that truck right there? You’ve got to get hit by that truck in order to ever use it.
So, I come up and I’m hearing that Obama now who said by the way yesterday, "Donald Trump will not be the president. He will not be." No, it’s a compliment. Look, he’s been perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States. So it’s a compliment.
But he was all over the place yesterday. Said, "Donald Trump will not be – " I think we have maybe a little surprise in store, and we start right here in South Carolina.
You know, New Hampshire was so amazing. We had a big, big victory in New Hampshire. Amazing people.
And then we come down here and I said, "You know, I think we have an ever bigger lead over here."
And the people have been incredible no matter where we go to speak. Even this. I know that four years ago, you had about 200 people here for the same kind of thing for your frontrunner and he’s a good frontrunner, a good guy, and he did well but you had 400 people, 200 people. You have thousands of people here and we just appreciate it, and I won’t forget it. Believe me, I’m not going to forget it. I’m not going to forget it.
So I hear that they’re talking about trying to get a liberal judge and a judge that does not like the Second Amendment and a judge that – and this is one of many. This is one of many but a judge that doesn’t want to do a number on the guns and that doesn’t know how important it is.
We’re just not going to let it happen. Okay? It’s not going happen. And if we elected, we know that. But we have 9 months, 10 months to go. We have to have the Republicans hold fast because I’m just hearing these little cracks, saying "Well, maybe if he appoints somebody, maybe we could get along, maybe." It’s not the way it’s supposed to be.
Now, it’s possible that they’ll have their wish because if they win, they’re going to be having their choice. But if they don’t win, we’re going to start really taking back because we have 3 or 4 or 5 maybe Supreme Court judges. This was not supposed to be one in question. This was a very sad circumstance that happened with – I mean, really to me it was a very sad circumstance. But now we’re going to see what happens.
I will only tell you this. We are doing well. We have a really good chance to win. If we can win in South Carolina, we’re going to go – I mean, we could very well run the table.
I don’t know if you saw – I guess a lot of you have seen actually next week in Nevada. It’s going to be phenomenal. The relationship there to the people...Bush is 1% in Nevada. This guy – why doesn’t he just give up, just go home? Go home. Go home to mom. Got to go home to mommy. You know, Bush is only at 1% in Nevada. A couple of them are, you know, at 10%, 11%, or 12%. I’m at like 40% something – 48%. So I think we’re going to do well.
Then I think we have the SEC. We’re going to have the SEC, which is going to be I think amazing.
But really now we’re starting. New Hampshire could not have been better. They gave us a tremendous send-off. They really started us on our way.
And we did well in Iowa. I mean, some votes were stolen from Ben Carson, which by the way was a disgrace. What Cruz – what this guy Cruz did with Ben Carson was an absolute disgrace. What he did was – he stole. It’s theft. And then they come out with a voter violation form, which is a fraud as far as I’m concerned. And what he did with that whole thing was a disgrace. So we’re not going to let that stuff happen anymore. I mean, we’re not going to let it. We will not let it happen. We’re all watching. You’re all watching. Keep your eyes wide open.
These politicians – here’s a guy, he raises the Bible and yet he tells fibs, he tells lies, and then he does this stuff to Carson and he does other things. Very bad.
So politicians are bad people. Boy, they are bad. Would you believe it?
So we’re not going to let it happen and we’re going to get in there...So Saturday. Go out and vote. This is going to be the place that’s really going to make it.
And honestly, I’ve been watching all the pundits. Now, the bad news is they’re always wrong. They all said I’m not running and I ran. Well, how is he going to do? He’s just doing this for fun. I’m not doing this for fun. Believe me, I love this location but I know I can be someplace else. Okay? I could be someplace else right now. I could be very happy.
But I’m doing it because you know the expression and I see all the hats in the audience – Make America great again. We are going to make America so ... ...
We are going to win again. You know, we don’t win very much. You’re very smart, tough people. You like to win. Right? This guy over here. You like to win. And we don’t win anymore. We used to win. We don’t win anymore. Well, we’re going to start winning again. We’re going to start winning again.
So, Second Amendment protected. Common Core. We’re going to end Common Core. We’re bringing your education locally. It’s going to be fabulous. I don’t know if you know or if you’ve heard me say we have the absolute worst – we spend number one in the world on education. Right? Number one per pupil in the world. There is no second place because we’re so high, so much – you have China, you have Norway, you have Denmark, you have Sweden. You have these countries are the best in terms of education and they’re on the list the best. And the 30th in the top 30 – we’re number 30th. Okay? We’re number one in costs.
That’s a little bit like what I’m doing. I’m the least spent money. You know, I’m funding my own campaign. Right? So, I don’t have a lot of the people coming to me. You know, the drug companies and all of the – because if you would see the kind of waste, fraud, and corruption in the United States, a lot of it isn’t really waste, fraud, and corruption. It’s the fact that people that are running against me and people in the Senate, people in Congress, they have tremendous power because they have people giving them unbelievable campaign contributions and they’re special interests and they do what those people want. And that’s one of the reasons why our budget is out of whack, the military is out of whack. The military orders equipment they don’t even want and the stuff they do want they don’t get because the company that makes that equipment is like, you know, it’s not politically adept, and companies that really are, they make the equipments we don’t want. It’s going to all change because I’m not getting any money from all of these people. I don’t give a damn. I mean, we’re going to do the right thing. We’re going to absolutely do the right thing.
I’ll tell you a little story. So the drug companies. We are the largest purchasers of drugs in the world, the United States...which makes a lot of sense I guess. But we purchase more drugs that make you better, drugs that make you better, not the kind of drugs that come over the southern border, which we’re going to end. Okay? We’re going to build a wall. Yup. Folks, by the way, we’re going to build a wall and who’s going to pay for the wall?
You better believe it. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion. And these characters come up, these politicians that I’m running against, "You don’t really think Mexico is going to pay for the wall?" I said, "Absolutely, 100%." They said, "How are you going to get Mexico to pay?" And I don’t want to get into it because they won’t understand it. I mean, they have no concept of business. They have no – you know, the $150 billion we gave to Iran, these people have no concept.
We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. Okay? The wall is going to cost $12 billion. Maybe less. If I build it, it’ll be taller, better, and less. Okay?
So you think of this. So you think of this. So they said, "How are you going to possibly do it?"
They make so much money. Plus we give them subsidy. They make so much money from the United States it’s going to be one of the easiest things.
And I don’t know if you’ve heard, one of the presidents or ex-presidents of Mexico held a news conference. He said, "We will never ever, ever pay for the wall." And the press called me. They said, "They said they will never pay for the wall." I said, "Who was it?" Calderon. He’s very nice, good guy. I said, "Tell him the following. The wall just got 10 feet higher." I mean it. It got 10 feet higher. Yeah, they’re going to pay for it.
And I get along great with Mexico. The problem is – I mean, they buy apartments. I have hundreds and hundreds and even thousands of workers are Hispanics who I’m doing great with. We have such an amazing relationship with Hispanics and they’re great people.
The problem is the leaders of Mexico are too smart for our leaders. They’re too smart. They’re too cunning.
You look at what’s going on. It’s unbelievable. The border is a disaster. It’s a sieve. People flow over. It’s not going to happen anymore, folks. People can come into our country but they’re going to come in legally. They’re going to come in through a process. They’re going to come in, they’re going to come in legally.
So with trade, we’re going to solve the trade problem. I don’t know if you saw Carrier air conditioner announced two days ago they’re moving to Mexico. Nabisco. They’re moving their big plant from Chicago to Mexico. Ford, they’re moving this massive complex – they’re building a $2.5 billion plant and now they’ve just announced they’re building it bigger.
I’ve been talking about this for two years. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal, they announced they’re building it bigger. In another words, they’re doubling down. You know why? Nobody does anything about it. I’m going to do something about it.
So I watched – somebody asked, "What would you do about Carrier?" Because that was a sad case. Somebody used their cell phone and they were telling them, "You’re out of work. You’re out of job. Forget it. It’s over. We’re moving to Mexico." Are crying. Grown men that have been there for a long time. Really incredible people. And they’re crying and they’re devastated and they lost their job and they’ve never had another job and now this plant – this whole thing is moving to Mexico.
And they said, "What would you do?" I said I’ll tell you what I’m going to do because you know they talk about free trade. I’m a free trader. But I say oh if I put a tax on these characters – these idiots. I mean, they’re like stupid. They say "Donald Trump is not a true conservative because he taxes." It’s got to be fair stuff, folks. It’s got to be fair. I’m a conservative person.
Hey, I’m the most conservative on the border. I’m the most conservative with the military. Nobody’s tougher than me. I’m the most conservative. We are going to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful, nobody’s ever going to mess with us, folks. We won’t have to use it.
I’m the most conservative on taking care of the vets. Our vets are treated horribly. We’re going to take care of our – I’m the most conservative on Common Core. We’re ending Common Core – I told you that – and we’re moving it locally. And nobody is more conservative and we call toughness but nobody is more conservative on the Second Amendment. So all of these things.
But with Carrier...they’re coming across and they’re going to build a plant and probably get some subsidies from Mexico – probably – we’ve probably given them subsidies. They probably have the United States giving subsidies to move out of the country. That’s how stupid it is and that’s how stupid we’re running...They said, "What would you do?" I say it’s very easy. We call them. We say let’s have a meeting. Here’s the story folks. You’re moving to Mexico. Congratulations. But if you don’t stay in the United States you’re going to have a problem. But here’s what you do it. You want to move to Mexico, build your factory, it’s going to be wonderful. Hire your people they’re not from the United States. All those people are now looking for jobs. Those are good jobs. You know we’re hiring a lot of part-timers now...The numbers are totally phony. The 5% – totally phony numbers. So I say here’s what we’re going to do. Very simple. You build your plant in Mexico. Enjoy yourselves. And you’re going to have air conditioners and just have them cross the border and sell them to the United States? No, you’re going to pay a 35% tax on every air conditioner. It’s true. It’s the only thing you can do.
And you know what? It’s the only thing you can do. There’s nothing else. Because otherwise how are you going to get them to stop?
And then you have the devaluation with China. The all-time. They’re like grand chess masters or grand – I mean these people are the greatest – the greatest in history. They’re grandmasters of that – devaluation. They devalue their currency.
Japan is doing very well too. They’re killing Caterpillar. You know, they’re ordering Komatsu tractors now because they’ve devalued – look, you take a look at what’s happened to the Yen and it’s very hard. A friend a mine. He’s a big excavator. You all know excavators. I love excavators. This guy’s a very big one. He buys Caterpillar tractors all the time and excavators. He just put in a big order for Komatsu. Not that he wanted to. He said, "Donald, they made it impossible for me not to buy. They’ve devalued the yen to such an extent – Japan – that it made it, I mean, I owe it to my family, to my company, to myself. I have no choice." And he was like depressed. He wanted to buy Caterpillar...
Well China is doing that times 100, times 1,000, and what they’re doing is the devaluation of their currency makes it impossible for people to compete. We can’t allow that stuff to happen.
Look, when we send stuff over to China, it doesn’t get in. If it does get in, you have to pay a big tax. You know, it’s not supposed to be that way. You know, it’s supposed to be free trade. It’s supposed to be they come we go, back and forth. They devalued their currency and on top of it, they make it impossible.
I have a friend who’s a great manufacturer. He said it’s virtually impossible to get his goods and he makes better stuff than they do. He can’t get his goods into China. When he does get them in, there’s a tax to pay.
I have a friend who actually bought an airplane and he can’t get it into China because the tax is so massive. He’s going to sell it now at a big loss. Okay?
And think about Boeing. Okay? Think about Boeing. Boeing is building a plant over here. Boeing just had a big order from China. But China is making them build a massive airline facility. Right? Massive. Like bigger than anything you’ve seen.
Okay, you feel good about Boeing right now. Tell me in five years. Unless I’m president. You’ll be fine. Don’t worry about it. But tell me in five years you’re going to feel good about Boeing because I’ll tell you what’s happening. They are going to build that plant – they’re building it, it’s going to be finished soon – they’re going to build that plant, they’re going to devalue the hell out of their currency, and all of a sudden you’ll be reading a big front page story all over the place that Boeing is going to leave, right, South Carolina, they’re going to make all their planes in China. Because this is what they do. That’s what they do. And our leaders aren’t smart enough to stop it, okay?
I have Carl Icahn endorse me. Great businessman, very rich guy, very, very successful. If I told Carl, Carl, watch over China trade, we’re going to be in great shape.
We have right now people that have no concept of what they’re doing. They have no concept of what they’re doing. They’re political hacks. That’s what they are. They’re political hacks and these are the people that are negotiating with these people China. And again, China likewise, I get along great with China. Largest bank in the world my tenant. They buy condos for tens of millions of dollars. I have the Bank of America building in California. I own a big chunk of that. I got that through China through a very complex set of transactions but through China.
I mean, I think China is terrific. I’m not angry at China. I’m angry at our leaders for not being able to compete with China. I’m not angry.
So we’re going to get things changed around. We’re going to use our best people. We’re going to be so smart, and we’re going to start winning again. We’re going to have strong borders. We’re going to have strong military. We’re going to take care of our vets. We’re going to have such great trade deals. We’re going to win again. We’re going to win again. We’re going to win so much.
And you know, and by the way, we are going to get rid of ISIS and we’re going to get rid of them fast.
I was against the war in Iraq from the beginning. I was against the war in Iraq. We shouldn’t have done it. We did it. Then Obama got out the wrong way. We shouldn’t have done Iraq. We did it. It destabilized the Middle East. Exactly. If you go back, you could see 2003, 2004, I said it’s going to totally destabilize the Middle East because you had Iran and Iraq and they were the same militarily. They’d fight, fight, fight. Boom. Then they’d rest. Then they’d fight, fight, fight for years and years and years. We decapitated Iraq and now Iran is taking over. Not only do they get the $150 billion. Maybe the worst transaction I’ve ever seen negotiated. No, no, don’t buy the famous Obama administration.
The worst, one of the dumbest deals I’ve ever seen. I mean, we get nothing. We get nothing.
We should have gotten those hostages before we started even negotiating. Not now. We should have gotten them years ago.
But if you look at what’s going on and now on top of that we gave them Iraq because Iran is now taking over Iraq. It’s just taking them over.
So here’s what we did. We spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives lost, wounded warriors who we all love all over the place. They’re the best people. Most incredible. They’re tougher than all of us these people. I mean, what they’ve gone through. So the wounded warriors all over the place. You know what we have? We have nothing. We have nothing. We have absolutely nothing. So here’s what we’re going to do. We’re going to change things around. We’re going to be smart. And we have – we’ll do what we have to do in terms of ISIS and all. But we have to start rebuilding our country.
We have $4 trillion in the various places. $4 trillion. Not going to happen anymore.
We’re going to have a strong military. But we’re going to have to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals.
I mean, our country is like a third world country. You go over to Qatar, you go over to some of these places in the Middle East. You go to China. You see the airports. You see the bridges. They have bridges that are so incredible you’ve never seen anything like it. They have railroad trains that go 350 miles an hour and we have things that go chug, chug, chug, chug like from 100 years ago.
We’ve become like a third world nation because we’re fighting everybody else’s battles. And remember this, we are like the policemen of the world but we don’t get paid anything. We protect Germany. We protect Japan. Do you know that in Japan if we get attacked, we have a treaty with Japan, if we get attacked they don’t have to do anything. If they get attacked, we have World War III, we have to protect them. Okay? I mean, who makes these deals?
We protect as an example South Korea, who have a maniac right next to them. Right? But we protect South Korea. So every time we order televisions, they come from South Korea, they make a fortune. We protect South Korea. Let me tell you something. Why aren’t they paying? They pay peanuts for what we do.
Every time this guy, you know, raises his head, we see our ships start to sail, our soldiers get ready. We have 28,000 soldiers at the border.
So we take care of the world. We don’t get it.
Saudi Arabia, before the oil went down, they were making $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. And we rent space there so we can help them. We rent military bases. We pay rent. And yet without us they wouldn’t last for two weeks. They’d be gone.
So we’re going to change all that stuff folks. I mean, I want to be good. We want to be fair. We want to have heart. And we’re not going to let these Syrian folks in that we don’t know who they are. We don’t know where they come from. They’re not coming into this country. They’re not coming in.
I mean, there are a lot of them. I don’t know if you know it. You have a lot of them moving into South Carolina. I don’t know. Have you heard this? And you ought to tell your governor don’t let them move to South Carolina. You don’t want them in South Carolina.
And I know they’ll say, "Well, we have nothing to do. We’re state government." Let me tell you something. If a governor from a state didn’t want to have them, I don’t care what it says, you don’t have to have them...
We want to help them with safe zones. We want to get the Gulf States to pay. I don’t want to pay. We owe $19 trillion. We owe enough. We can lead it but let the Gulf States – they have so much money they don’t know what to do with it. Let them build safe zones.
Look at what’s happening in Germany. It’s a mess. Look at Sweden. Look at Brussels. I mean, Brussels, you go there 20 years ago, 15 years ago it was incredible.
So when I call for moratoriums and I call for this, first I get hit with tremendous heat. Right? Then everybody starts to say, "You know, he’s right."
Same thing – on June 16th, I announced we’ve got to stop illegal immigration. The heat I took was unbelievable. Three, four weeks later they’re all saying, you know, Trump is right. Then Kate killed in San Francisco, beautiful Kate, by an illegal immigrant. You have Jamiel in Los Angeles killed. Incredible guy. Young man. The father’s a friend of mine – a great guy. You had the veteran – 65-year-old woman – a veteran raped, sodomized, and killed in Los Angeles by an illegal immigrant. We’ve got to stop it folks. We’ve got to stop it. We’ve got to be smart. We’ve got to be a country again. We’ve got to be a country again.
So I just want to thank – this endorsement meant so much to me from these two guys and from the whole community. I just want to say get out and vote. We’re going to do something you’re going to be so happy with. We’re going to win so much and we’re going to make America great again. That’s what we want to do. Make America great again. So Saturday, get out and vote. Thank you! We love you all. Thank you very much! Thank you. Thank you very much folks.
I don’t really think – look, what happened is we had 17 candidates originally. I was expected to come in like anywhere maybe 10, 11, 12, 13. I ended up coming in second. Didn’t devote tremendous time to it. Didn’t devote tremendous money to it.
In fact, I guess in terms of money per vote, I’m about at the bottom, meaning the most efficient.
I came in second. I came into strong second. Third, I think, was quite a bit away – I think 2,500 or something – close to 3,000 votes away. There’s a big difference between second and third.
I think we did really well. You know, as far as that’s concerned.
I think the press – some of the press said I did fantastically well. Some of the press doesn’t want to give it credit.
I think we did very well. I didn’t expect to do so well. I guess what did happen is one poll came out and said I’m 4 or 5 points ahead and that maybe build up a false expectation for some people.
But it had taken me back to June 16th. I was told "Don’t even go to Iowa. Start right here in New Hampshire. Just don’t waste your – "
...I’m going to Iowa. I went. I bonded with the people, bonded with evangelicals. We did really fantastically and came very close to winning. I mean, we came very close to winning. We came in second place.
So I am very happy with what happened in Iowa. You know, you had 17 people and I was second. Now, I guess you have 11 people and I was second. And I think we did a very good job.
No, I don’t think I feel any pressure. I mean, we’re going to just do what I have to do. And if it works out, that’s great. And if it doesn’t, that’s okay too because you know I’m here to do one thing – the theme – make America great again. I’m going to do it.
And I think we did very well – I think we did really well in just about everything we’ve done running for office. I think we have a very good result yesterday. It could have been a little bit better. It could have been one notch better.
But it’s interesting all of these governors and senators that you have way down the list, they’re at 1%, 2%, you know, in terms of what happened – what just happened – they’re at 1%, they’re at 2%, they’re 3%. Nobody ever talks about them. And I’m at 24% or 25%, and they say, "Oh, couldn’t you have done better?"
You know, I think the result was quite good especially for the amount of time I spent and for the amount of money I spent.
Well, I think I have – I think it fits me better, probably suits me better. I’ve done very well in New Hampshire. I’ve been here a lot more. I have very good relationships with the people of New Hampshire.
But I’ve had very good relationships with pretty much everybody.
I really don’t. I really don’t see that happening. I don’t know what’s going to happen. You don’t – nobody does. We’ll see what – you’ll have many, many people that aren’t doing very well. I am doing very well. But you have many, many people that are here, that are well-known politicians – they’re governors and they’re senators – but they’re not doing very well. And they just came back from a, you know, very major defeat yesterday. And mine wasn’t.
...You know, it’s very interesting. If you look at the numbers from yesterday, I got the highest number in history outside the one number – in the history of the primary.
...Also, I guess they had 185,000 people, which is 45,000 or 50,000 people more than they ever had.
No, I mean, I think we’ll get a lot of Sanders’s voters. You know, they’re very much into the trade world and I’m the best on trade. He mentions it but I don’t think he’s going to be capable of doing anything about it.
No, I think we’re going to do really well here. I look forward to it.
We have a lot of events scheduled, yes.
Well, we do. We have one commitment long-term for Arkansas actually where we’re going to have about 10,000 people. But we’re going to be back and forth very quickly. We’re going to have a lot of events scheduled, yes.
Well, I just think, you know, I’m just happy with the way we’re doing. You know, we’ve bonded with the people whether it’s there or here. I mean, there’s just a big bonding process going on.
If you look at South Carolina, it’s the same thing. I mean, we’re doing really well there. But we’ve devoted much more time here and South Carolina –
It’s not a question of learning. I mean, I just want to continue to do well...Our theme – the theme is so important. It’s just make America great again. That’s what we’re going to do. That’s what we’re going to do. Not really a question of learning.
Well, if you look at the second place, people didn’t talk about my second place. They didn’t talk about it as positively as they should have. And yet, with Marco who was more than 2,000 votes behind me – that’s a lot of votes by the way – they said, "Oh, he’s surging. He’s surging."
So, I don’t know why is the third place person doing well and the second place person, who by the way has never run – Scott was mentioning before – "One of the amazing things about you, you’ve never run for office before. It’s incredible how you did."
My brand’s doing great. Yeah.
No, I think just work. We’re going to work very hard and we have a lot of meetings, a lot of talks, a lot of speeches. We’re going to be meeting with a lot of people and I think we’re going to do very well.
Well, we’ll be doing some of that but we also have some very big events planned like tonight, I think they have 4,000 or 5,000 people and other people were here yesterday and they had 200 people. Same venue, same everything. They had 200 people.
So we have – there’s a good bonding going on.
Well, I enjoyed it.
I have unlimited, I have unlimited – you know, it’s funny. When I look at the various people, they said so and so has $20 million. I have unlimited. That’s not the thing.
The only – you know, I’m a businessperson. I want to spend wisely. And I’m probably $40 million under budget because of the fact that frankly I haven’t had to spend very much although I guess we just did a recent filing and I would be probably having spent now maybe $14 million, $15 million.
But I’m self-funding. And I must tell you, I don’t know that enough people appreciate it. I’m self-funding anyway whether they appreciate it or not. So I won’t be influenced by the lobbies and you know et cetera, et cetera.
But I don’t know – I was talking to Scott about this before – I don’t know it’s really appreciated by the voters. I’m the only one on both sides that’s self funding. I’m putting up my own money. And I don’t know that the voters appreciate it. When they go into vote, I don’t think they say "I’m going to vote for Trump because he’s self-funding and he’s not going to be influenced by lobbies and special interests et cetera."
I’m going to tell them and I tell them. But sometimes they like it but I don’t think it’s something they vote for, which is a shame because it’s actually a very big thing. You understand that. It’s a very big thing. It’s a very big element if you could have somebody that can actually self-fund and not be influenced by bad decisions...or looking for themselves or looking for the company or country they represent. That’s a real positive...
I just don’t know whether or not the voters appreciate it.
I’ve learned that they’re great people. I really, I thought the people in Iowa were fantastic...You know, obviously I was second. I had the largest vote getting in the history of a Republican primary except for one and I brought many of those extra people in. And they also had as you know the largest turnout in the history of Republican primaries in terms of Iowa by far – not even close. I think it was like 50,000 or 60,000 more than they’ve ever had before. So I just – I learned that they are terrific people in Iowa.
Yeah, I look forward to it.
...No, I don’t think so. I have a very good relationship with Marco. I like him... I don’t see that necessarily.
You’re talking about Iowa? Well, that could have been with the debate. I think it could have been the debate. I think some people were disappointed that I didn’t go in the debate.
If I had to do it again, I would have done the exact same thing. And the reason is – you know why? Because I raised $6 million for the vets in one hour.
So if I took a second place instead of a first place and could give the vets $6 million, I’ll do that all day long.
Well, we’re going to be spending money. We’re going to be spending money – we’re going to be spending a lot of money. We’ll be spending money on ads and we’ll be spending money on the ground game.
I can’t help it, honey, whether I’m celebrity. I mean, this is me.
Look, I think most people say I did a great job in Iowa. I came in second. I spent far less than anybody else. And had I known that I was going to be liked as much as I am in Iowa and people did like me – you will understand that – I would have maybe spent a little bit more and I would have been there a little bit more and maybe I would have won it. But, you know, I’m very happy with it. I have 7 delegates right at the top.
You look at other people in all fairness – senators, governors – they’re, you know, they’re way down.
When I have 25% or 26% and they have 1% but you people don’t mention that.
But the one thing is you people don’t mention that. You don’t mention all the other names.
Now, you mention the person, Marco, good guy. But he came in third. And they make it sound like he had a victory and I didn’t. But I came in second.
...I started off on 17th. I was 17th. When I first started, I had nothing. And then I inched my way up – went pretty rapidly actually. And now I’m leading everything and I did okay in Iowa. Pretty good in Iowa.
Well, I think we’re going to have great success here. I think it’s a much different kind of a process. This isn’t a caucusing process. This is a much different – this is a normal voting process. The Iowa is a much different kind of a thing.
Well, he insulted me. I mean, he started with the insults, as you know. And he insulted Ben Carson by doing what he did to Ben Carson. That was a disgrace. And he insulted the people of Iowa by doing a voter violation form that nobody’s ever seen before which was disgraceful. No, no, he’s a man of insult.
No, I’m going. I have thousands of people going. No, but we don’t have that invite. I like Mike Huckabee but no, I don’t think he’s even going to be there.
I did. I did. No, I like him. Well, he’s left the race so I feel pretty good about that. He’s a good man.
Well, we’re adding some and we’re adding them pretty rapidly.
...People in your world are saying they possibly could. So I don’t really see one or two. I see there could be a number.
I’d love to finish first. You know, again it would still not be horrible because you’re competing against a lot of very talented people that have been politicians all their lives. I have been a politician for 6 months.
No, but I’d love to finish first.
Wouldn’t horrible but you know it wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world. I could think of worse things. But I’d like to finish first. I think we will finish first. I’d like to finish first.
...Just so you understand. I am totally self-funding my campaign other than small donations because people send in small donations for $10, $15, $20...
No, no, that’s merchandise sales. That’s a lot of merchandise sales.
It’s a small amount of money compared to what I put in.
It’s very hard when somebody sends you a check for $17.50 and $9 and $200, very hard to send that back.
I am. And I always make the reference. I always make a reference to that and I do it every time.
Well, he’s somebody that I respect, always liked. And he’s very, very respected throughout the country but he’s very respected here. And everybody wanted his endorsement and I’m very honored that he’s giving it to me and he’s going to give it to me on the stage.
That happens with endorsements. No, that happens with endorsement. It’s pretty common with endorsements.
...A poll came out a few days before that said I was about 5 points so maybe there was a tinge.
And again, it may have been the debate, which would have set records if I did it. So I would have liked that. But the fact is it could have been the debate. Maybe it is. Maybe it isn’t. But I would have done it exactly the same way because I raised, Scott, we raised in one hour, I raised $6 million for the vets. And I would never, ever give that up to go between first and second in Iowa. Wouldn’t be worth it.
I think her email situation is very serious. I have a feeling she’s being protected by the Democrats because it just looks to me to be more serious than anybody that I’ve seen including Gen. Petraeus.
If you watch and study and read about various lawyers – you know, that’s what they do – they really feel she’s in grave danger and what she’s done is against the law not just against rules. It’s against the law. I just don’t know what’s going to happen because I don’t know whether or not the Democrats are going to protect her.
I never saw a race where they’re flipping coins. I mean, they’re flipping coins. What kind of a race is that? It’s ridiculous. I thought it was terrible. I mean, you call it a tie. But to flip coins, they say "Okay, you’re going to get this district. We’re going to flip a coin."
I don’t know. I can’t tell you yet. I think he’s certainly was dirty what he did to Ben Carson was terrible. He did the voter violation form. I thought that was terrible. Actually, I thought it was terrible. And when they said that Ben Carson was out of the race and come vote for him, I thought that was terrible.
Okay?
Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
Wow, what a crowd. Thank you very much everybody. Such an honor. With the snow coming down and it’s a little cold outside and you have hundreds of people still outside trying to get in. But you know, we won’t wait. We’ll go ahead. Right?
We’ll go ahead.
First of all, congratulations to the Iowa State basketball team. You had a – what was that all about? I turned on the game. I said, "Wow, this shouldn’t be that good of a game." And at the end of the game, I said, "Who won?" Yes? That was great and it’s a great achievement.
I also want to pay my respects to Ben Carson. They had a really bad accident. Some of his staffers were hurt really bad. So I just want to pay my respects to Ben. He’s a good guy – a really good guy – and his staffers and hopefully they get better. Say a prayer for them. Okay?
We’ve had an amazing time today. We’ve been all over Iowa and we’re going to be here tomorrow. We’re going to be here so much you’re going to get so sick of me. You’re going to say, "Please, tell him to get out of here. Tell him to leave. Tell him to go."
But we’ve had an incredible time.
And you know it started really – we’ve had really a pretty good week. The debate last week – everybody watched the debate. And who knew about these debates? I didn’t know anything about the debates. And it’s been fun and it’s been interesting. And I’ve been treated semi-fairly by the moderators. Not 100%. Some have been very fair actually, and some have been not so fair.
And you know, a lot of the press hasn’t been very fair.
Boy, look at the press back there. They must think there’s a big event going happen today. Wow, that’s a lot of them – it’s like the Academy Awards.
But we’ve had an amazing – it’s been an amazing experience and it started really on June 16th when we came down the escalator. We came down that escalator and it was – I said, "Let’s go" to my wife, who’s been so supportive and so wonderful. I said, "Let’s go. We’re going to make America great again. That’s what we’re going to do."
And you know, it’s hard to do this because when you think of it I’ve never done it before. I’ve never been a politician. Thank goodness but I’ve never been a politician. I’ve always done jobs and put a lot of people to work. Tens of thousands of people over the years.
And you know, I have thousands of Hispanics that love me. The Nevada poll just came out where I’m leading with Hispanics, which I knew, I knew.
And we came out at that particular opening when I opened and said I’m going to run for president I gave up a lot. You know, gave up a lot of different things including telling our friends at NBC no more Apprentice. That’s hard to do. You have a top show and you say, "I’m not doing it anymore. I’m sorry." They wanted to do it so badly.
And Steve Burke, who’s a fantastic executive, came up to my office and said "Come on, Donald. Come on. Do it. You’re not going to run. Do it. Do it." I said, "Steve, I’m going to run." I was pretty sure. You know, that was about two months before. I was pretty sure. It really is a tough thing to do.
You know, all my life I’ve heard "If you’re a very successful person, you’ll never run for president. You’ll never really run for politics. But you’ll never ever run for president."
And I built a great company and it’s a tremendous number. You saw the filings. The press was going to look so closely. It was like D-Day when we put those papers in.
You know, first thing I did I announced. They said, "Oh, he’s actually going to do it" because most of them said "He’ll never do it."
Then when I signed...that’s when you sign your life away. And I signed that. They said, "Whoa! He signed that. Well, he’ll never file his financials because maybe he’s not as rich as everybody thinks."
And I filed the financials and they saw an unbelievable – you didn’t hear a thing about it. Oh boy, were they looking. I mean, were they looking. And almost 100 pages. The biggest report ever filed with the FEC in terms of that. And it showed a company that’s a phenomenal company with some of the great assets, very little debt, tremendous cash flow. You know, the way it’s supposed to be. And it’s great.
And the reason I tell you that is because that is the kind of thinking we need now in the United States. We need that kind of thinking. We need that – whatever it is. We need a mentality that’s going to – you know, we’re at $19 trillion in debt. It’s going to be up to $21 trillion. You saw that horrible budget. Horrible, horrible budget that was approved two weeks ago and that’s going to lift it.
And so we went along and a lot of things have happened and then the polls came out which I love and new ones came out today and I’ll tell you right now. You know, now that we’re at it. And they came out some brand new ones – some beauties. And one’s coming out – I guess a big one’s coming out. I don’t know exactly what it is but it’s got to be pretty good because I see the response.
I mean, even this with all the people still trying to come into this building. Somebody said it’s a barn. This is a very nice barn actually. But with all of the people still trying to come in, you see what it is.
And we do have something special in a couple of minutes. To me, it’s really special because it’s a person that I think is a spectacular person. So it’s very special to me.
But then the polls came out and some of them – as an example – national polls 38% for Trump, 20% for second. I wouldn’t even names. Right? I won’t even mention names. I’m going to be non-confrontational today for a change.
21% for the second. 11%. And then they’re all down. Some of them are actually at 0% and 1%. I don’t know.
Jeb – well, you know, Jeb’s got one problem. He loves Common Core, meaning he wants your kids educated from Washington, which is immediately no good.
And his second problem is he’s very weak on illegal immigration. Remember, he said they come as an act of love. I said, "What? They come as an act of love?"
So I think those are two very bad points frankly.
...So South Carolina just came out and that’s 32% for Trump, 18% for second, 11% for third. Great.
Florida leading by a lot – 31%, 19%, 13%, and then all down in the dumps.
Georgia just came out. I have 33%.
Yeah, don’t forget that’s 33%. Hard to believe. That’s with 14 people, 15 people. I don’t know when they took it but it was recent. 33%.
Connecticut – now, Tom Brady loves me and that’s sort of like, you know, and I love Tom Brady by the way. 35% to 18% to 9% to 2%. You know, to nothing.
Maryland just came out. Maryland – great place – 32% to 15% to 11% to 9% and then you know they sort of phase out.
You ever hear of a place called Iowa? Oh, I love this. We’re doing actually great. First of all, I have to tell you. You know, they never report it. Even CNN doesn’t report it. CNN does a poll, probably spent millions, they never report their poll.
The CNN poll was 33% for Trump, 20% for Chris. Nobody talks about it. Nobody talks about it. They don’t talk about it. They talk about – CNN is reporting other people’s polls. So, I call up. I say, "Wait a minute. You’re CNN. You spent a fortune on polls and you don’t report your own polls because I’m winning by a lot." And they have no excuse but they keep reporting other polls. But we’re doing well. I think we’re doing a lot better than anyone knows.
Gravis just came out – 34% for Trump, 28% for Cruz. PPP 28% for Trump, 26% for Cruz. In other words, it’s a little close here. Quinnipiac poll – very respected 31% for Trump, 29% for Cruz. And then again CNN 33% to 20%.
So we’re – I think we’re doing good. I think we’re actually doing better than the polls.
Now, I could do this. I could say, "Well, I just want to do well in Iowa." I want to win Iowa, folks. Because look, I love the people. The evangelicals have been phenomenal. I’m doing great with the evangelicals but nationwide I’m winning with evangelical – I don’t know if you know that – by a lot nationwide.
With Iowa, I’m doing really well with the evangelicals. We’re doing really well with the Tea Party. We’re doing well – I mean, you hear the numbers. I mean, these are the numbers.
But I actually think we’re doing even better than the polls. And you know, there’s the thing that a lot of people said, you know, they call up, "Are you going to vote for Trump? He’s got very, very tough immigration policies. He wants to destroy Obamacare and replace it with something a lot better." I’m going to do that. Okay?
But you know, a lot of people, they’ll pick up the phone and they’ll hear different things and they’ll say, "Uh, no I’ll vote for – " and then they’d get in the booth and they say, "Trump is my man." There are a lot of people saying that we’re going to do a lot better. But we’ll see because Feb. 1st you have to get to caucus, you have to go out. You’ve got to do it. Otherwise, we’ve all wasted our time.
You know, one of the groups in Maine and it was like incredible. We were in different places up in New England recently and New Hampshire was amazing. And the people are standing there. It was so cold. There was one little group of – despite global warming – you know, you hear about "It was so cold." It was windchill below zero. And people were standing outside for hours trying to get in.
And then you hear the announcers. "Well, will they show up to vote?" And I don’t know much but I say like if people are going to stand out for four hours in the cold or the heat because believe me they stood out in the heat during the summer and during the fall like you wouldn’t believe in Tennessee, in Texas where we had 21,000 people, no matter where we go we have these big crowds but they’ll stand for hours and hours to get in. Why aren’t they going to go and vote? Or in your case caucus? Why aren’t they going to go and vote? It’s sort of an amazing thing. So we think they’re going to really be – why would somebody wait for hours for four hours and not going to take two minutes to vote?
Now, yours is a little more complicated because the caucus system is a little bit different. It’s a very interesting system. But it is different.
Here’s what I have to say about Iowa. It’s very important.
So you know there’s a movement to move Iowa to the back of the pack. Okay? You know that. You’ll still see me but you won’t see other people. Believe me. I’m loyal. To a fault I’m loyal.
But you’re going to see. I give you my word. I win; they’re not touching Iowa. This is an amazing tradition. No, seriously. This is an amazing tradition. They’re not moving Iowa back.
And they’re not moving New Hampshire either because they’re talking about Iowa, New Hampshire. They’re not touching New Hampshire.
So, we’re going to just keep it the way it is. It really is. It’s an amazing. First of all, you’re amazing people. But all over the country it’s a movement all over the country. The people are incredible. They want to make America great again. They’re going to do something that’s special.
And you know we used to talk silent majority? I say it’s the noisy majority because it’s actually a noisy majority. It’s not a silent majority.
But people are fed up.
So I started on June 16th and we did well. Practically from the beginning we went up. And if you remember, we started at nothing. You know, we started at nothing because nobody believed I was going to run. Even when they – my wife said, "You know if you run, you’re going to win." I said, "What do you mean?" She said, "People don’t believe you’re going to run." At the polls. I was getting these little polls. I felt like some of these guys now that are senators and governors; they get these little polls.
...Jeb again, right? Boy, he’s taking a lot of abuse. You know? I told him "You know what? You should use the name Bush. What’s wrong? Use the name Bush. I mean, maybe it’s not working but it’s better than Jeb right?" You know, I really do. Get rid of the exclamation point and just put Jeb Bush. It’s your name. Don’t be ashamed of your name.
So anyways, I wish him the best.
But, you know, I started and I started at like 2% or 3% and then it went to 6% and then it went to 9%. And each time the pundits – these real geniuses back here – some of them are sitting back here – these real geniuses like George Will with the little glasses – take away the glasses. He looks like a dumb guy, I’m telling you.
But each time these geniuses would say, "Well, he’s reached his plateau. He’s plateaued" at 6%, right? Then it goes to 11%. "Well, you know, this is surprising but he’s reached his plateau." And then it goes to 18%. And then it went to 22%, 24%, 28%, then it went to 32%. Then it went actually 42% in the Gravis poll and in Reuters we got to 42% and even a little above that. And then all of a sudden you didn’t hear so much about the plateau.
I want to plateau at 42%. You know, 42% with like 14 people that’s pretty good.
But they kept saying, "He’s plateaued. That’s all he’ll get. He’s got these followers."
We have the smartest followers there are. Number one, we have the smartest. And the hardest working followers. We have people that love the country more than anybody and they want to take back what’s happened because our country is going to hell.
We can be nice about it. We can say it nice and soft. Our country is going to hell.
When you look at this crazy Iran deal where we’re paying $150 billion and they give us the five back but they don’t know where the fifth is and you understand what that means. That’s not a good sign. But they give us five people but they get seven and they get 14 off the Interpol. These are bad dudes. They get 14 plus seven so they’re getting 21 people. And they have the right to do whatever they want from an enterprise standpoint. Right to do oil. Right to do whatever they want.
But what do they also get out of that deal? First of all, they’re going to get nuclear. They don’t have to develop nuclear missiles. They can buy them. For the kind of money we gave them, they’re going to buy them. Why are they going to develop?
Remember the deal? 24 days. They have 24 days for inspection period. They also have self-inspection. Right? But we paid $150 billion. And I always say, "Wow. What a great – the Persians are great negotiators." I say what a great deal that is.
...Two weeks ago I started. I said, "Wait a minute. That’s not a good deal compared to the other deal." They took over Iraq. We gave them Iraq. We knocked the hell out of Iraq. We decimated their armed forces. And you know, for years, they would fight. For many, many years, for decades they’d fight, fight, fight. Nobody would win. Fight. They’d rest. Then they’d go back to fight.
And now, we gave them the second largest oil reserves in the world, which is Iraq. We gave it to them. Now, they’re going into Yemen. And if you look at Yemen, take a look. They’re going to get Syria. They’re going to get Yemen.
Unless, you know, trust me a lot of good things are going to happen if I get in. But let’s just sort of leave it the way it is.
They get Syria. They get Yemen. Now, they didn’t want Yemen. But did you ever see the border between Yemen and Saudi Arabia? They want Saudi Arabia.
So, what are they going to have? They’re going to have Iraq. They’re going to have Iran. They’re going to have Iraq. They’re going to have Yemen. They’re going to have Syria. They’re going to have everything. They’re going to be a monster. We’ve created this. We have stupid leadership. Really stupid leadership.
So when I started, I said we have to do something about it. It’s not something I wanted to do. It’s something we have to do.
Because I’m representing you. I’m not taking any money. I’m not, you know, like some of these guys where they’re getting millions and millions of dollars from people I know and they’re nice people and some are very bad people but they have no interest in the country. They have interests in their company or they have interests in countries they’re representing.
And these people and these politicians are going to do exactly as they’re told by their lobbyists, their special interests, and their donors.
Me, I’m going to do the right thing.
And I always tell the story. When Ford moves to Mexico, I’m going to talk them out of it. When Nabisco moves its plant from Chicago to Mexico, I’m going to talk them out of it. Believe me. It’s going to be easy. It’s going to be easy.
So, I started and I talked about the border. Very strong on immigration and illegal immigration. Took a lot of heat. But you wouldn’t even be talking about that subject if I didn’t bring it up.
And I talked about again I talked about ISIS and I talked about. But what really happened is after Paris we had 130 people killed.
And by the way, I told you Common Core is dead and Second Amendment is right this way. We’re going to protect the Second Amendment. We’re going to protect the guns. We’re going to protect your guns.
You know, if in Paris and if in Los Angeles, we had the two maniacs that were married. She came on a fiancee permit...You know, wonderful fiancee. She was totally radicalized. Maybe radicalized him. Maybe he was already that way. But we’ve got to start thinking. We have to start using our head. Bad stuff is happening. We have to find out what’s going on.
We have a president who won’t even talk about the term. If you think, he won’t even mention anything to do with what we all know is going on. And you can’t solve the problem if you don’t talk about it. You have to talk about it.
So, very, very strongly we started talking about that. And then after Paris – and by the way, if we had a couple of you and you and you and you, if we had three or four people in that room in Paris as an example where they have the toughest gun laws like in the world. You can’t have a gun unless you’re bad guy, you bought a gun. And they walked in just said "Boom! Boom! Boom! You, move over. Boom!" Killed 130, more to follow because there are people that are so badly wounded.
But if we had a couple of – few of the people that I pointed out – I could plenty in this audience, believe me. But if they had guns on their waist, if they had guns around their ankle where the bullets went the opposite direction, it would have been a whole different story, folks. It’d be a whole different story.
So very, very big on the Second Amendment. But what happened is all of a sudden after Paris and to an extent, to a pretty big extent in California, what happened is these polls started coming in where everybody liked Trump even more. I went up 11 points. I don’t want to do it for that reason.
But it went up because people want strength just like having the family of John Wayne, who was great. I love John Wayne. From Iowa. But out of nowhere I got the most beautiful letter from his daughter, who you just met, who’s an incredible woman, and she said, "We’d like to endorse you."
John Wayne was a strong guy. We need strength. We need strength in this country because we’re withering away with political correctness nonsense. Okay? Nonsense.
I mean, if you think of it, you can’t say "Merry Christmas" anymore. We’re going to say "Merry Christmas" again. You go into these department stores. They don’t have any Christmas displays. They don’t have the sign "Merry Christmas". Even people that aren’t Christian are saying "Merry Christmas. We love Christmas. Let us say ‘Merry Christmas’, Happy Holidays." But people like to see it. And stores don’t put it up anymore. We’re withering away. We’re going in the wrong direction.
So I said we’re going to do this and I had no idea it was going to work this way. I figured I’d be in the pack and maybe like a race horse. You know, just at the end you can sort of inch it out. I had no idea to have 21 point leads nationally. We’re up by so much. And you know, I want to keep it that way. I want to keep it that way.
When you think – and just one thing before I introduce our incredible person, our incredible guest. But one thing – I’ve spent to this point almost nothing and I’m in first place by a lot. I tell this story. I’m not bragging about spending. I’m just saying I’m telling the story. I have spent – they’ll tell you – almost nothing and I’m in first place by some polls have me 21 points. That’s a lot. Okay? You know some people have 2%. I have a lead of 20%. But I’m in first place by a lot.
Jeb has spent now $77 million. Think of it.
And you know the reason I bring him up – I wouldn’t even bring him up – but he spends a fortune on ads against me. You people have all seen it before
I got along with everybody. I contributed to everybody. I was a world class businessman. Now I’m a politician, which I’d hate to tell you. But you go with everybody. You want to love everybody. You want them all to love you unless you’re stupid. But you want everybody to love you.
Everybody knows this story. But so much money has been spent on me. But he spent $79 million. I spend nothing. I’m in first by a lot. He’s down towards the bottom of the pack.
And I said to myself, "It’s amazing. Wouldn’t that be great if this were the country doing this?"
As an example, education. We’re number 28 in the world. We have third world countries that are ahead of us. Education is very important to me.
World, I mean, countries that you wouldn’t believe are ahead of us. You wouldn’t believe if you heard the names of some of these countries. So we’re 28. But we’re number one in spending per pupil by far.
Wouldn’t it be nice if you had like this election process where we spent the least but we had the best education? You know?
So Sweden and Norway and China and others are the best. We’re nowhere near them and yet we spend far more per pupil. So we’re going to change that and I told you we’re going to get it localized but we’re going to change that. Watch, you just watch...
I will tell you this: You can’t educate your children through bureaucrats in Washington. And that’s what happens with Common Core.
When the parents take over and I really mean this because I’ve seen it. When the parents surround those schools and they love those kids and they love those pupils and even when their kids graduate, they are committed to those schools, they’re committed to education. You can do so much better in Iowa than they can possibly do telling you what to do in Washington.
And not all of them but most of them are just interested in "Where’s my check? How much do I get? Let’s make the process complicated."
And some of the things that your kids are made to study are an outrage. Okay? So we’re going to bring that back locally and it’s going to be great.
So what happened essentially is I started looking and all of a sudden things changed. And people are now looking. They know I’ll do great with China. I’m going to do great with Japan. I’m going to do great with Mexico, who’s killing us in trade and killing us also at the border.
We will build a wall and you know who’s going to pay for the wall – Mexico. They’re going to pay for it because they make a fortune and all of those things.
But now, we’re really focused on security and I’m honored because I will tell you that all of polls and the CNN polls where said in particular that Trump is just not by a little bit but by many, many percentage points winning on ISIS, winning on the military, winning with the vets. We’re going to take care of our vets big league, by the way. Big league. Big league. And we’re going to really take care of our military. It’s going to be big and strong and powerful and nobody’s going to mess with us and it’s the cheapest thing we can do, I’ll tell you that right now.
So it’s been a real focus.
I just want to now say just a couple of words about a very special person. This is a person who I’ve known for a long time, who I’ve respected for so long. An incredible husband. An incredible family. And somebody that when I heard that she was going to endorse me, I was so honored. You have no idea how honored.
And I would like to bring up if I might Gov. Sarah Palin. Special, special person. Thank you.
 — let me just tell you — let me just tell you a little secret. It’s the cheapest thing we can do. We’re never going to have to use it. I don’t think we’re going to have to use it. Don’t forget they talk about my tone. I remember when Jeb and Hillary the same day — Mr. Trump’s tone is not nice. They’re chopping off Christians’ heads in Syria and other places and they want me to have a nice tone. I’m supposed to be, oh, isn’t life wonderful, OK?
 Look, we’ve got to be tough, we’ve got to be smart, we’ve got to have heart too. We’ve got to have heart, we’ve got to take care of people. We’ve got to fix our health care program. This Obamacare is a disaster. You people know.
You people know. Obamacare is a total catastrophe. It’s going to be repealed and replaced. It will die in ’17 anyway. I don’t know if you heard what’s happening. But it’s so bad, all the people that they didn’t think were signing up are signing up.
And the other people that are really paying for it are not signing up. And your rates are going up 25 percent, 35 percent, 45 percent. Your deductibles are so high that unless you get hit by a tractor, you’re never going to be able to use your deductible. You’re never going to be able to use it. So Obamacare is a disaster. We are going to repeal it, we are going to replace it.
There are so many great things we can do on health care. So many good things.
Wow. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
We start by paying our great respects to Pearl Harbor.
We don’t want that stuff. We don’t want World Trade Centers. We don’t want that ever happen to us again. It’s not going to happen to us again.
So I want to thank everybody for being here. It’s a great honor.
They have thousands of people outside and sometimes they’ll say "Would you like to wait about an hour until they all come in?" But we can’t get them in anyways so what difference there. We all got lucky. We’re together tonight. Thank you.
So we have a lot of big news today. To me, very big was CNN just came out with a new poll about an hour ago and Iowa – great, great state – and in Iowa, Trump 33%. Beating everybody by a lot. You have Cruz at 20% and Carson at 16% and going down and Rubio at 11% and Bush at 4%. But it’s Trump at 33%. It just came out. It’s Iowa – we love Iowa.
By the way, great ship named after Iowa too. I’ve been on that one too. A really great one.
The other big poll that came out just two days ago was the national poll. Trump 36% and then I won’t even mention the other numbers because they’re so low.
You know, when you have so many people running – we had 17 and then they started to drop. Ding. Bing. I love it. I love it. And you’ll be losing a lot over the next little while. I would imagine. I don’t know. When somebody’s down at zero I would think that eventually they’ll drop out. The only difference is there’s nothing to pick up if there is zero. What do you pick up? So anyways you’ll be seeing that.
One of the things I think that’s so important because to me very important in the same poll, which is the big national CNN poll, on the economy – so important – Trump 55%. Everyone else nothing.
On the budget – I’m really good at these things – economy, budgets. I sort of expected this. On the budget, Trump – this is with 15 people remaining – Trump 51%. Everyone else bing.
Oh, here’s one that I started and I took a lot of heat. I took a lot of heat. Sort of like the one we’re talking about today. I guess you’ve heard a little bit about it. But I’ve taken a lot of heat on this one. Illegal immigration. Now, had I not brought that up in Trump Tower in June when I announced that I was going to run for president, which takes courage to run for president, believe me.
You know, all of my life, I’ve heard that if you’re a successful person, especially if you have very success – you’ve done a lot of things, a lot of deals, a lot of everything, you can’t run for president.
And yet, that’s the kind of mindset and thinking this country needs.
We’re being run by people that don’t know what they’re doing. Very sad.
On illegal immigration, Trump 48%. That’s with 15 people. Everyone else, no good.
On a thing called ISISoh, don’t worry. We’ll have plenty – we’ll talk a lot about ISIS. Can you believe it?
Here we have generals. They go on television and talk. They do all talk. You people – a lot of military people here. Who’s military here? All right, I love you.
By the way, speaking of it, we’re going to make our military so strong, so powerful, so great, nobody’s ever going to mess with us again. Nobody. They’re never going to mess with us.
You know in many ways, it’s the cheapest thing we can do. The cheapest thing. Instead of fighting these wars that we don’t know what we’re doing and we have leaders that are afraid to do anything, we’re going to make it so great, so strong that people – gosh, they’re not messing. They’re not messing.
And we’re going to take care of our great vets, our wounded warriors. We’re going to take care of them. Because they – thank you, they are not being taken care of.
We have illegal immigrants that are taken care of better than our incredible veterans and it’s not going to happen any longer. Not going to happen. Not going to happen.
So with ISIS – Trump 46%. Can you imagine that? With all of these characters running.
On foreign policy, Trump way up. And you know, in theory you could say "Well, maybe it’s not my thing." But people want to see strong, they want to see strength, they want to see protection, they want to be protected. And that’s it.
I watched last night and I watched the president truly that didn’t know what he was doing. He didn’t know why he was there. He refuses to use the term "radical Islamic terrorism". He refuses to use the term.
I don’t even know if he knows what the hell is going on. I really don’t.
And then we’re looking at Hillary Clinton. Honestly, I know Hillary. It’s just going to be an extension of Obama. I think maybe worse.
She’s got no strength. She’s got no stamina. Remember that.
You don’t need a president with no strength or stamina when we’re being ripped off on trade, we’re being ripped off on Obamacare, which is going to be repealed and replaced by something really good.
When our soldiers aren’t being taken care of, when our military is never been like it is today.
One of the generals was on television, as usual, saying that we’re the least prepared now than anytime that he’s ever seen it and he’s been there a long time retiring. That’s how we are.
In the most dangerous world we’ve ever had because of the power of weapons, we have people that don’t know – they don’t – I’m telling you. I watch them. I watch these generals being interviewed.
Do you think Gen. George Patton would be interviewed?
They’d be interviewed after total and complete victory.
Gen. Douglas MacArthur. They’re not big for interviews. You know, they shoot first, they talk later.
These guys – and I don’t think we’ll have to.
You know, just so you understand, Bush – Bush, he said yesterday he was being interviewed, he said that he was talking about me. He was saying the nicest things about me. Of course, he says he’ll be elected. He’s at what 3%? Right?
No, but he said some things and I was like – I said "Who says that about an opponent? You don’t say those things." You’ll find out what he said. But he said very nice things.
But, if you look at what happens where he is upset with me because he says the tone – the tone – of Donald Trump is not nice.
And I say it all the time. We have people whose heads are being chopped off in the Middle East because they’re Christian and for other reasons. They’re being dumped and drowned in steel cages. And we talk about my tone.
Hillary said the same thing. "Mr. Trump’s tone is not nice."
These people are living in a different planet. Different planet.
And remember what I said about Hillary. We need somebody who’s strong. We need somebody with incredible energy but incredible intelligence and all of those things.
You know, I know a lot of tough people but they’re not smart. That’s no good. They’re easy.
We need tough. We need smart. We need like every character. We are so far behind the eight ball in this country.
We owe $19 trillion. The budget they signed two weeks ago is going to make it $21 trillion. It’s a – think of it. Trillion. Trillion. Trillion dollars. Who the hell ever heard of the word 10 years ago? There was no such word.
We owe $21 trillion in the very near future. We’re really in trouble. We have to rebuild our country. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. We have to rebuild our military.
And yet, we do deals with China where there’s a trade imbalance of over $400 billion a year in their favor, by the way, in case you had any question.
Japan – they send their cars by the millions. $70 billion a year imbalance. That’s like a loss.
You look at Mexico. We’re going to build a wall. It will be a real wall. It will be a real wall. Gonna happen. It’s gonna happen.
The people I’m dealing with – and you know, I really focus on Hillary later because I have to get through these 15 people. You know, there’s 15 of us.
I had Perry came at me strong; he went down. I had Gov. Walker, nice guy, he went down. Every guy that attacks me so far they’ve all gone down. We’ve got to keep it that way, right?
I mean, Lindsey Graham. He’s at zero. He’s at zero. Zero.
Let me ask you a question. I don’t get Lindsey Graham. I don’t get himHe’s literally at zero. You see him. And he keeps talking. He gets so much television. I mean, he’s on television all the time and he doesn’t go up. He’s at zero, folks.
His ideas are so bad. I’m more militaristic than him. But I know how to win; he doesn’t. He just wants to attack everything. He doesn’t know where the hell – ra ha.
And he always sits with John McCain. It’s like they’re the Bobbsey twins. They’re always sitting together. No, it’s true. Do you ever notice? Sometimes I want to see him by himself. He’s always sitting with John McCain, who’s fine. I’m not knocking it. But you got to know what to do.
Now me, I was against the war in Iraq. So everyone says, you have the right temperament – I have a great temperament. But you’ve got to attack. If you’ve got to do something, you’ve got to know what you’re doing.
I said if you attack Iraq and you wipe it out, Iran is going to take over the entire Middle East because you’re going to ruin the balance. It was so simple to me.
And actually they sent a group from the White House to see me because I got so much publicity, so much publicity that they sent a group from the White House to see Mr. Trump. I said, "Fellas, you’re going to have Iran take over the Middle East and that’s what’s happening."
And Iran’s going to take over Iraq as sure as you’re sitting there.
And by the way, Iraq, with the second largest oil reserves anywhere in the world. We lost of thousands of lives. We have wounded warriors all over the place. $2 trillion. We have nothing. We got nothing. We have absolutely nothing. And we left.
And we have a president – we shouldn’t have been there but then we shouldn’t have left the way we left.
You know, the funny thing is I look at Democrats and liberals and conservatives and Republicans – wouldn’t it be good all of us if we can get together and really make our country great again? Is that what we want to do?
I’ll bet you that if I spoke to that young woman, that quickly I really think I can convince her that we’re all in this together, folks. We want to have a strong country. Right?
But you know, if you think about it and you’ll have some that can never be satisfied no matter what. They’re just troublemakers, et cetera, et cetera. But most people aren’t and they believe something. And I have some very smart friends don’t agree with me; they agree with the other side.
But I really believe that if you took it about making America great, we have to be strong, we have to be vigilant, and if we’re not vigilant that was the same person. I’ve got to tell you, so far, the security is not doing a great job in here, I’ll tell you that. That was the same person. You can do very nice but why don’t you get her out because honestly it’s inappropriate. So security, strengthen yourself up.
See, our country has this kind of security. That’s the problem we haveTreat her very nicely please but she should now be taken out. Same person. One person. It’s one person. They let her out. They gave her a second chance and the same thing happens.
But you would think that everybody we’re all on the same basket that everybody every single person
So you would think that if we could get together, we’d all be in the same boat.
Now, last night we all saw and we witnessed something that I thought was highly inappropriate.
In fact, I tweeted "Is that all there is?" about the president’s speech and I wrote something today that I think is very, very salient, very important, and probably not politically correct but I don’t care. I don’t care.
You know, we had a situation in California very recently where somebody was making bombs in an apartment. The mother saw them. The mother didn’t notice anything wrong. I watched the sister being interviewed. Believe me, in my opinion, she was lying like crazy. I watched that interview. "Oh, my brother was such a wonderful guy. I didn’t know, I didn’t know, I didn’t know."
And I watched the next door neighbor saying, "Oh, well we didn’t report them because we didn’t want to racially profile or we didn’t want to profile." Give me a break. Give me a break.
We’re like the stupid country in so many different ways. It’s so – can you imagine what our great leaders of the past would have said with the kind of crap that’s happening with us?
They didn’t want to report them because they thought it was profiling.
Okay, they saw bombs. They saw, you know, the pipe bombs only this wasn’t to build a bathroom. When a bomb is this long, can’t put too many of them together for a bathroom, right? And we thought they maybe but we didn’t want to racially profile. Oh, okay, you’re okay, you’re innocent.
Or how about where the families and the girlfriends and the wives and everything and they go back to World Trade Center – the worst, worse than Pearl Harbor because with the World Trade Center they were killing innocent civilians. At least while it was a dirty, rotten sneak attack, at least they werebut while it was an attack, at least it was military. But this was an attack on the World Trade Center.
So, what’s happened is we’re out of control. We have no idea who’s coming into our country. We have no idea if they love us or if they hate us. We have no idea if they want to bomb us. We have no idea what’s going on.
And then I looked at poll numbers and I don’t mean polls where I’m winning; those numbers I like looking at. These numbers I hated to look at. And it’s very, very sad.
I’ll go after some of the numbers. 25% of those polled and this was from the Center for Security Policy – very highly respected group of people who I know actually.
This is people living in this country. 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans is justified as Muslims. 25%.
51% of the Muslims living in this country – by the way, I have friends that are Muslims; they’re great people. But they know we have a problem. They know we have a real problem. Because something’s going on, and we can’t put up with it, folks. We can’t put up with it.
51% – 51% highly respected number of polling groups want to be governed according to Sharia. You know what Sharia is.
So I wrote this out. The mainstream media wants to surrender the Constitution. The mainstream media – these people back here. They’re the worst. They are so dishonest. No, no, they’re so dishonest. They are so dishonest.
I mean, I have one from NBC, a reporter from NBC, and actually another one from CBS, they actually in Columbus, Ohio, I had a tremendous crowd like 10,000 people. It was a love fest. It went on for a long time. Everybody stayed right ’tis the end. I had one of the politicians – Kasich – who is just getting – he’s a horrible debaterHe made a statement that "Oh, they left after 10 minutes." Now, the press was there. They saw it. Nobody said it was a lie. It was a total lie. In fact, I had more people at the end than I had at the beginning. Nobody’s leaving. Nobody’s leaving here except for the one person that was screaming.
So, we asked the press to report that it was a total lie and they didn’t want to do that because it’s not their thing to do.
You know, we get the biggest crowds. They don’t want to show this crowd tonight. They’re not going to show all the people outside trying to get in. They don’t do that. They have the cameras right in my face. I say fan the crowd just to show – look at all the people over here. It’s a record in the history of this ship. But they don’t show it. They don’t show it. No, no. And I say fan it and they never ever fan it. I say fan the crowd and they never fan it. And yet, I guarantee you that that young woman that just got taken out after interrupting us three times, I guarantee the cameras will be on her. I guarantee. It’s disgusting. Disgusting.
And by the way, some of the media’s terrific but most of it 70%, 75% is absolute dishonest, absolute scum. Remember that. Scum. Scum. They’re totally dishonest people.
I had one the other day where I finished the speech and they said "Oh, Trump was interrupted and he left early." I spoke for like 45, 50 minutes. I then answered questions and then I went around, you know, everybody knew it was false.
Amazingly, there’s a media group that calls the media and the next day they did the most beautiful story about what a lie it was from NBC. She’s back there. Little Katie. She’s back there. What a lie it was. No, what a lie – Katie Tur – what a lie it was from NBC to have written that. It was a total lie. And they did a story where they – I didn’t know they had a group like this where they actually criticized the media. And they said it was a total lie. And I loved it. I loved it. I loved it.
And then other people pick it up. You know it’s NBC so somebody picks it up. Third rate reporter. Remember that. Third rate. Third rate.
So I said here the mainstream media wants to surrender our Constitution and our constitutional rights. And I don’t want that. I want ISIS to surrender. Okay? I want ISIS to surrender. Very simple.
It’s very simple. So here’s what happened. It’s been a little controversial. It’s been a great day because the poll numbers are through the roof. I like that.
But I have moreI wish we could call – is there any way we could call the election tomorrow? Wouldn’t you love that?
Now they’re coming at us in full force. They’re coming – not coming at me. They’re coming at all of us. They’re coming at all of us. Because you know, we have a noisy majority. They used to call it the quiet majority. People are fed up. They’re fed up with incompetence. They’re fed up with stupid leaders. They’re fed up with stupid people.
They are fed up with stupid people, where our president makes a deal for Sergeant Bergdahl, a dirty, rotten, no good traitor who – think of it. They knew he was a traitor because a general and a colonel went to see his group. Six people were killed looking for him. Okay? Six people were killed. Young. Unbelievable. I watched the parents on television. I’ve seen the parents. But I watched the parents on television devastated, will never be the same. They left to try to bring them back. He left. He deserted.
You know, in the old days when we were strong country it would be boom, gone. It was called desertion. Now I heard the other day they won’t even do anything to him. Can you believe it? They think he’s going to get away with nothing. He’s going to have nothing.
So he left. Oh, they treated him pretty rough though. He got in there, he said, "I shouldn’t have done this. This isn’t working out the way I thought."
Anyways, so we get him back and here’s the deal we made. We get a dirty, no good traitor. Six people killedThey get five of their greatest killers that they’ve been after – after – think of it for six years. In fact, I hear nine years.
So they get these – right now have gone – they’re out in the battlefield, trying to kill everybody in front of them including you folks, I’d hate to tell you.
So we get Bergdahl and they get five of the killers that they’ve wanted for many years. That’s the way we do it.
The Iran deal. We gave them $150 billion. It’s called amateur night. We gave them $150 billion. 24 days – 24 days – we think there’s something wrong, 24 days we have to wait but it’s much longer than that because there’s a whole process before the clock starts ticking. So it could be forever.
But the best is where they have the right to self-inspect. "Are you doing nuclear weapons over there?" "Oh, we’ll inspect tomorrow." "Oh no, we’re not doing nuclear weapons."
You know, the Persians are great negotiators. Always have been. And somebody would say that’s profiling. Trust me, they’re great negotiators.
And Kerry is a horrible negotiator and Obama is a horrible negotiator. Horrible. He’s a horrible negotiator. These people are horrible.
I always Obama would be a unifier. I never thought of him as being like a divider because I said "You know what? I don’t think he’s going to be a good president."
I backed McCain; he lost by the way. And you know, I don’t blame McCain for losing because a lot of bad things will happen; it was a tough one. But I backed McCain; he lost. I backed Romney; he should have won but he sort of went away on vacation or something the last month and he lost. And I said, "This time I’m going to do it myself. We’re not going to lose." We’re not going to lose. We’re not losing.
And the recent Fox poll that just came out has me beating Hillary very easily one on one. I love that. That’s so important.
So, we put out a statement today. We watched this. And it’s impossible to watch this gross incompetence but I watched last night.
And we put out a statement a little while ago and these people are going crazy
Shall I read you the statement?
Donald J. Trump is calling for – now, you’ve got to listen to this because this is pretty heavy stuff and it’s common sense and we have to do it. Remember the poll numbers. 25%, 51%. Remember the poll numbers. So remember this. So listen.
Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what the hell is going on.
We have no choice. We have no choice. We have no choice.
According to Pew Research, among others, there is a great hatred toward Americans by large segments of the Muslim population.
Most recently, a poll from Center for Security Policy released data showing 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans – these are people that are here by the way, people that are here – 25% not 1%. By the way, 1% would be unacceptable. 1% is unacceptable. 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as part – think of that – as part of the global jihad.
They want to change your religion. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. Not going to happen.
As part of the global jihad. And 51% of those polled agreed that Muslims in America should have the choice of being governed according to Sharia. You know what Sharia is. 51%.
Sharia authorizes – now look, this is, I mean, it’s terrible. Sharia authorizes such atrocities as murders against non-believers who won’t convert, beheadings, and more unthinkable acts that pose great harm to Americans especially women. I mean, you look – especially women. Tough stuff.
And we have a president that won’t even mention the term and you’re talking about numbers like this.
Mr. Trump stated without looking at the various polling data, it’s obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension
Where the hatred comes from and why, we’ll have to determine. We’ll have to figure it out. We have to figure it out. We can’t live like this. It’s going to get worse and worse. You’re going to have more World Trade Centers. It’s going to get worse and worse folks.
We could be politically correct and we can be stupid but it’s going to get worse and worse.
Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victim of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad.
These are people only believe in jihad. They don’t want our system. They don’t want our system and have no sense of reason or respect for human life. They have no respect for human life.
So prior to Paris, which was a disaster, which by the way if some of the people in those places where it was slaughter, absolute slaughter, had guns, you wouldn’t have had the carnage that you had in Paris. You wouldn’t had that carnage. If they had guns, you wouldn’t had that carnage.
So important the Second Amendment. We have to preserve it and cherish it. And we can’t let these weak leaders diminish it.
If they had guns in Paris, if five people in that room, Paris and France has probably the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world and it was like target practice. "Come over here. Boom! Come over here. Boom!" People are sitting by the hundreds and many others are going to be dying. They’re sitting in the hospital in many cases waiting to die.
Now, the same thing a few days ago in California. No guns. We didn’t have guns. The bad guys had the guns.
And these young people – and I tell the press you’ve got to stop calling them "masterminds" – these are dirty, rotten scums. These aren’t masterminds.
Remember the guy in Paris with the big dirty hat? Remember the guy in Paris – the "mastermind". I was watching all the networks. I won’t mention who but some of them disgusted me. "The mastermind is on the loose."
And we have kids that are watching the Internet and they want to be masterminds and then you wonder why do we lose all these kids – they go over there. They’re young. They’re impressionable. They go over there and they want to join ISIS.
And we have our anchors – I think I got them mostly stopped. Did you notice that? I don’t hear it too much. But they say "the young mastermind". Oh, he’s brilliant. Young man, he’s brilliant.
I don’t even he’s got a high IQIn Paris, I call him the guy with the dirty filthy hat. Okay? Not a smart guy. A dummy. Puts people in there – mastermind – bing, bing, bing, it’s like shooting everybody. You’ve got to be a mastermind.
So the press has to be responsible. They’re not being responsible because we’re losing a lot of people because of the Internet.
And we have to do something. We have to go see Bill Gates and a lot of different people that really understand what’s happening. We have to talk to them. Maybe in certain areas closing that Internet up in some way.
Somebody will "Oh, freedom of speech, freedom of speech". These are foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people.
We’ve got to maybe do something with the Internet because they are recruiting by the thousands. They’re leaving our country. And then when they come back, we take them back. "Oh, come on back. Where were you?" "I was fighting for ISIS." "Oh, come on back. Go home. Enjoy yourself."
When they leave our country and they go to fight for ISIS or any of the other groups, they never come back. They never can come back. They never can come back. They can never, ever, ever come back. It’s over.
How about that? And now that they’ve become radicalized, they’re totally radicalized.
And how about the woman? She was in Pakistan then Saudi Arabia. She comes in on an engagement deal and she radicalized the guy. Probably a guy who couldn’t get women. I don’t know what the hell his problem is. It’s probably the first women he’s ever had. I don’t know what was going on. But he became radicalized quickly. Notice how easy it is? He becomes radicalized and then they go on a spree.
Folks, those days are over. Those days are over. We have to be tough. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.
Yes, we have to look at mosques and we have to respect mosques. But yes, we have to look at mosques. We have no choice. We have to see what’s happening because something is happening in there. Man, there’s anger. There’s anger. And we have to know about it. We can’t be these people that are sitting back like in the World Trade Center, like so many different things.
We can’t be people that knew what was going on two weeks ago in California, probably for months they knew what was going on and they didn’t want to tell anybody. We can’t be that.
We have to be strong. When we see violations, you have to report those violations and quickly. Don’t worry about profiling. I promise I will defend you from profiling. I promise.
So when I started this whole quest – I mean, who knew it was going to turn into this? It’s been an amazing thing. No matter where I go, I have tremendous crowds, packed crowds, packed.
We went to Dallas – 20,000 people in Dallas. 25,000 people. Mobile, Alabama – 35,000 people. Here, every time I come to South Carolina, every time I go to North Carolina, every time I go to Iowa, New Hampshire, Virginia, wherever I go – Florida – we have crowds that are maxed. The only problem we have is the size of the room – thousands of people outside trying to get in. Usually I do a double. I go talk to them for a while, which I wouldn’t say I exactly love doing after the first one.
But there is an unbelievable love in these rooms – all the same. I love you too. I love youThank you. Thank you. I love you too.
There’s an unbelievable love in all of these places – Oklahoma – 20,000 people standing in a park on quick notice. There’s an unbelievable love. And there’s an unbelievable love of the country. We want to see good things. We don’t want to be bad people. We don’t want to be tough and nasty. We believe in the Constitution more than anybody.
But we can’t let people use and abuse our rights. We can’t let people kill us. They want to kill us. They want to destroy us. We can’t let it happen. We just can’t let it happen.
And I have a friend who’s a very, very successful man, and I went to one event – he came with me. We had 24,000 people. And this guy’s a real tough cookie. He’s a great financial guy. One of the guys I’d definitely use to negotiate with Japan, China. Believe me, you’re going to be in good shape when that happens. We won’t have these characters.
You know, this whole thing with all of these guys. By the way, I’m the only one that’s self-funding my campaign. Everyone else is controlled. Only one. I’m the only one. Only one.
I’m self-funding my campaign. And these other guys. You know, they’re getting millions and millions of dollars from people I know.
I have one guy came and wanted to give me a lot of money. I said, "Honestly, I can’t take it. I don’t want to do." I can’t take it, which is very sort of like for me to not take money – my whole life I’ve been taking money. Now I’m sort of like what am I doing? But came in and I said, "So what are you going to do? I don’t want your money." And he said, "I got to go someplace else." They’re like gamblers. They’re like gamblers. But I said, "You like me best." "I like you best but I’m going to go someplace else." Because they want to be part – they want to –
Let me tell you, who is more than me? I gave millions to these guys. Nobody knows the system better than me. I knew it from the other side. Don’t forget, I was the fair-haired boy. I was like the establishment. They’d all come to me, and I’d give them all money I write checks sometimes to Senators whatever the max – bing, bing, bing.
I used to say "Senators, don’t come to my office. Anybody that’s a U.S. Senator that calls me, we’ll send you a campaign contribution."
But you know what? I’ll tell you something. In the end, the people that gives these millions of dollars to these horrible, corrupt PACS – they’re corrupt – they totally control Bush and Rubio and I won’t say Cruz because he’s been very nice to me. Nah, he’s been nice. He’s got to hit me first. Once he hits me, I promise you. I promise you.
No, I’ve been nice to Christie but he really hit me today. Chris Christie. I mean, I don’t know. He’s a friend of mine but he’s not doing well in the polls and he really, really hit me today. He hated this and yet he said anybody could come. You’ve got to look at some of the statements from the past. But he really hit me on the whole thing that we have to stop the Muslims until we find out what’s going on.
Does that make sense by the way? Until we find out.
And he talked about – that’s inexperience and you know in other words he has experience right?
But that’s the statement of an inexperienced manAbout we have to stop people that want to kill us from coming in. Does that sound like inexperienced?
So Chris, who’s a friend of mine, he hit me hard. And I said I got to hit him at least once. So I won’t do this a lot.
Look, here’s the story. The George Washington Bridge. He knew about it.
Hey, how do you have breakfast with people everyday of your lives, they’re closing up the largest bridge in the world, the biggest in the United States, traffic flowing during rush hour. People couldn’t get across for 6, 7 hours. Ambulances, fire trucks. They’re with him all the time – the people that did it.
They never said, "Hey boss, we’re closing up the George Washington Bridge tonight." No, they never said that. They’re talking about the weather, right?
He knew about it. He knew about it. Totally knew about it. He’s a got a very friendly group of people over there that they don’t think so. But I don’t know. It’s called life. You’ve got to be smart in life.
I would say there’s less than 1% chance. It could be but I doubt it. He knew about it. They didn’t mention at one of their meetings? I think they had breakfast like everyday or every other day. They’d just say, "Chris, tonight we’re closing up the George Washington Bridge because the mayor a certain area is against you." "Oh, okay." They didn’t mention? Nobody believes that.
Number two. Nine downgrades of the state. Nine downgrades. It’s a disaster. I have property over there – the taxes are through – I’ll use an expression – coming out of my ears, okay? Tremendous taxes over there. You had nine downgrades.
You had Christie, you know, so friendly with President Obama during the flood.
I actually called. I said, "Let me ask you. Is he going to vote for Obama?" I thought he was going to vote for Obama. I don’t know. I think he possibly did.
And Romney I was very disappointed. One of the reasons I was disappointed was he called Christie and had dinner right after the election. If Christie did that to me, I would have never spoken to him again. I would have never done it.
So when Chris talks about – when he talks about lack of experience – I built this incredible company. I filed papers where everyone said "Wow, that is unbelievable." I would have probably filed them even when I didn’t run because I built a great, great company. Tremendous cash. Tremendous assets. Tremendous net worth. Very little debt. Unbelievable cash flow. And I filed.
Everybody said "Number one, he won’t run." And I ran. I took a deep breath and I said, "Let’s go" to my wife and we came down that escalator. Right, the famous escalators. Hopefully in many years that will be a very famous scene because we will have turned around our country and that will be a positive note, okay?
But then they said, "Oh, well he announced." So these talking heads – most of whom are not even smart people, believe me. Then they’d say well, they went to Ivy League college. So did I go to Ivy League college. They went to this. Most of them didn’t go to Ivy League colleges by the way but they say they’re brilliant. One’s brilliant because he wears glasses, you know? Like Perry. Remember Perry? We don’t like him.
But what happens is they say "Well, he’ll never file form A." That’s basically where you sign your life away. I filed form A.
Then they said, "Well, he’ll never sign his financial statement because maybe he’s not as rich as everybody thinks." Then they said, "And if he does, he’ll ask for many, many delays because you’re entitled to 45 day delays, delays, and you can delay it until forever. And they’ll delay it until after the election."
I said, "No" so I filed it ahead of schedule. And what happened? Remember? They went down. They couldn’t believe it. It was much, much, much better than anybody ever envisioned.
I built a great company and the reason – honestly worth billions and billions of dollars. Remember that – low debt, great cash flow, and the greatest assets – Doral, Trump Tower, the Trump Building, big chunk of the Bank of America building in San Francisco, 1290 Ave., land all over, land on the Potomac, land all over.
In North Carolina, I have a great piece of property. Trump National Golf Club. Some of you know it. Great, right at the best location.
And what happens? What happens? So I filed and everyone said "Oh, I can’t believe it."
Then they said "Well, maybe he won’t do so well with the polls." And you know, before I went, people never believed I was going to run. They never thought I was going to run.
And I told the story the other night for really the first real time. But my wife said to me "You know if you run you will win. Don’t you?" She’s very smart.
I said, "What do you mean?" She said, "If you don’t run, you’re never going to poll before. Nobody believes you’re going to run." So if they do polls like they did these early polls, they weren’t great before I announced. She said, "No, the only way you’re going to get a poll number is you’ve got to announce." Nobody believes even though they say, even though they say you’re running, it doesn’t matter. Nobody believes you’re running.
So I said, "All right." I’m getting these lousy early numbers and I’m saying, "I don’t know. I don’t want to run and find out it doesn’t work." I don’t want to be embarrassed like Lindsey Graham and all these guys who have nothing. It’s true. It’s true.
So I said, "All right. Let’s take it."
So we go down on the escalator. You know what I did? You remember I took a deep breath because I’m telling you and you know what I’m talking about the press down there look like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras. I have never seen anything like it. The entire atrium of Trump Tower was packed with cameras and press. And I just said, "Let’s go" to my wife.
I took a deep breath and I went down and I talked about lots of things, including illegal immigration.
And illegal immigration was such a big subject. And I’m telling you had I not brought it up, it has turned out to be – and I took heat. I took heat like nobody has ever taken heat. Rush Limbaugh said "The most incredible incoming that I’ve ever seen a human being endure". And then he doubled down a week later because I was right.
And now, illegal immigration is one of the biggest things.
And then you had the killing of Kate and the killing of Jamiel and the killing recently in California of a 66-year-old – think of it, 66-year-old – veteran, female, raped, sodomized and killed by an illegal immigrant. And many, many more. It’s a huge problem.
And they take our jobs and a lot of other things.
So all of a sudden, everyone’s saying "Wow"and from almost at the beginning, you’ve seen I’ve been at the top like from almost day one.
The reason I tell you certain things and the reason I talk about what I’ve done and lots of good things. A little thing – Wollman ice skating rink. The city couldn’t get it built for high years. They were in there for like $20 million. They couldn’t get it done. I went to the mayor of New York, I said, "Ed Koch, I’ll get it done real quick." He didn’t like it because he didn’t want to be shown up. I said I’ll do it and if it costs more than $2 million I’ll pay for it. I got it built for peanuts. Got it done in four months. And we had ice skating in Central Park and I still run it.
I did another one – I did a bigger version of that recently Ferry Point out in the Bronx. They were having – things have been under construction from anywhere between 20 and 30 years. They couldn’t get it done. I got it done under a year. It’s operating now. It’s very successful.
It’s what I do and that’s what we need. That’s what we need in our country.
I’m building on Pennsylvania Avenue an incredible hotel. One of the great hotels of the world. The Old Post Office site. Think of it. I got it in the Obama administration. Everybody was bidding. Everybody wanted it. One of the most sought after projects in the history of the GSA – general services. And I got it. Can you imagine me getting it from the Obama administration? Because the GSA, who are really professionals, they want to make sure number one that it got built. So they wanted strong financials. And they also wanted a great plan. So we came up with Ivanka and my kids we came up with this incredible plan. The job is under budget, ahead of schedule. It was going to open up in ’17 – sometime during the year ’17. Now, it’s going to open probably in September of ’16 right before the election on Pennsylvania Avenue.
And this is the kind of mindset you need.
Carl Icahn, one of the great businessmen, and others have endorsed me.
We have trillions and trillions of dollars offshore. Pfizer’s leaving the United States.
In the old days, somebody would leave for, frankly, South Carolina. They’d leave New York or Florida or someplace where the taxes are lower. They’d leave for North Carolina. They’d leave – today they’d leave this country for other countries.
So now, we’re losing Pfizer. We’re losing many of our great companies.
We have $2.5 trillion offshore at least. And everybody agrees it should come home – the Democrats, the Republicans. For three years, they can’t make a deal. They can’t make a deal because there’s such gridlock. There’s no leadership in Washington.
We will make this country so great. We have people and I’ll tell you something. I’ll tell you something said something to me the other day and what I really want to do what we want to do or what I want to do is I want to be the people’s president.
Think of this, think of this, I don’t work for any of the lobbyists. I don’t work for any of these people that are leading our country in the wrong direction. We don’t.
The best thing that I’ve seen in going around and the thing that I’ve seen more than anything else is how smart the people are. They don’t believe those people in the back that write with fork. I’m telling you, they don’t believe them. The people are really smart.
What’s giving me more inspiration than any other single thing are the people that I’ve met – the incredible people of this country.
We’re going to make America great again. And you know what? We’re going to make it greater, greater, than ever before. And I love you all and thank you very much. South Carolina. Great. Thank you! We love you. Thank you!
Thank you very much, everybody. You just like me because my daughter happens to be Jewish. Right? She has a great husband, Jared, and I’ll tell you what Ivanka could not be happier and she’s very proud. The only bad news, I can’t get her on Saturday. I call and I call. I can’t speak to my daughter anymore on Saturdays. But that’s okay.
It’s an honor to be with you. You know, I’ve devoted so much time over my life to Israel, and the other politicians they can talk but believe me they haven’t done what I’ve done. I’ve received many, many awards.
I was the Grand Marshal of the Israeli Day Parade at a very dangerous time when people said, "Don’t do it. Don’t do it." I walked up Fifth Avenue. I’m looking up for lots of trouble. But I said, "No way am I not going to do it." And it was a rough time as you know. It was 2004, and it was a tremendously successful parade. Maybe their most successful parade that they ever had.
So, I’m in a different position than the other candidates because I’m the one candidate I don’t want any of your money; I want your support but I don’t want your money.
I’m self-funding my campaign. It’s been an amazing experience for me because I have very little money invested so far.
I thought by this time I’d have about 30 million in ads and I have none although I took a small radio commercial the other day in Iowa. But we have virtually no money in invested in ads or advertising. And I think you as business people will feel pretty good about this and respect it.
At first, I was embarassed by that. I said, "You know, I think we’re going to have spend money just to spend money" but it’s not really like a good thing to do because I am in first place by a lot. It’s not even close. Every single poll, every single state.
The numbers just came in three minutes ago in New Hampshire – the PPP poll – Trump at 27%, the next one is 13%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 5%, and the rest are off the board. They have to drop out pretty soon I guess, right?
Most of importantly, favorability – no, I still like the top number the most but favorability is now at 50% to 39%, which is good, and I beat Hillary in the Fox poll as you see very easily 46% to 41%. That’s ultimately the most important.
And you know, I’ve been a tremendous fan and I’ve been a tremendous contributor. I’ve given a lot of money recently to Hatzalah, $100,000, emergency response. They do a fantastic job.
And my father, Fred, was always a big supporter. So I grew up in that environment. I grew up in Brooklyn, Queens, and Israel was always very paramount in our mind.
In fact, I’ve been sometimes criticized because I received so many awards from Jewish groups, and they look at my wall. It’s loaded up. But now the Christians are catching up, I have to tell you.
My Christians are liking me a lot lately and they’ve been great. They have been great.
So, Obama is the worst thing that’s ever happened to Israel. The worst. The worst.
And when I see great friends of mine who are very, very pro-Israel, very – I mean, they love Israel. They love it with passion, and they’re having fundraisers for Obama. I said, "What are you doing?"
And it’s almost like they answer me and they say, "We don’t know. He comes to New York. We don’t know. We don’t know." I said he’s a disaster.
I really believe the Iran deal. Look, I’m a negotiator like you folks. We’re negotiators.
We don’t build gas stations in the middle of, as you know, Afghanistan for $43 million – can you imagine this? A small gas station – $43 million – and then they used the wrong kind of terminal because they don’t sell that type of gas. Okay? $43 million for a gas station.
How many think they could have done it for less? Would you raise your hands please?
But I look at Obama, I look at that deal where we gave to Iran $150 billion. They don’t need to develop nuclear weapons; they can buy them. They can buy them. It’s true. Why do they have to develop them? They can buy them. We gave them $150 billion.
They go out and in terms of, you know, surveillance, they have the right to self-inspect. How about that? On their major, most dangerous they can self-inspect.
We’re going to let them self-inspect. And then you have of course the 24 days and the 24 days we’re all good with contracts don’t start until such and such happens. It could be forever before you ever go into inspect.
And we don’t even get our prisoners back.
And now they want to start a negotiation to get the prisoners back and they want 19 people for our three. They don’t want to give us our four. You know we have four. But they only want to talk three.
Now, that should have been negotiated right at the beginning, three years ago.
And maybe better than any audience, I mean, the people in this room understand what I’m saying. It should have been you walk in – by the way, did you ever see a negotiation take so long? And we conceded on every single. We didn’t win anything. We didn’t win anything.
But that should have been with our prisoners – day one, whatever it is years ago, we have to get our prisoners back. You don’t want them. We need them. It will make us look better. Both everybody is going to like us more. With the American public, any deal that we strike, it’s going to look good.
And you say that. We have to get our prisoners back. Day one. They’re going to say, "No, we’re not giving." And we’re going to say, "Bye bye. Bye! Call us when you’re ready." And then we go out and double up and triple up the sanctions. I guarantee you within 48 hours they’re calling, begging us to come back to the table and you have your prisoners back. It’s so easy.
Now, the president, you saw that, and John Kerry, who is probably the worst negotiator I’ve ever seen. No, he’s the worst negotiator I’ve ever seen. He did not read The Art of the Deal, folks, I can tell you that. Now, he’s one of the few. He’s one of the – biggest selling of all time business book of all time, he didn’t read it. And Obama definitely didn’t read it. Obama, ayeyeye. Oh.
But they said – this is hard to believe but this is what they said – a lot of press back there so I have to say everything exactly correct because if I don’t I end up with a – they said we didn’t want to complicate the negotiations by asking for the prisoners. It’s really complicated. We want our prisoners back. Oh, so complicated. They said they didn’t want to complicate – so now, we’re going to end up making a new deal probably at some point.
I’d tell you this, look I’ll just tell you this: If I win, before I take office, I guarantee you those prisoners are going to be back. They’re going to be back, I guarantee you. They’re going to be back.
Now, our president doesn’t want to use the term – we had another event, which probably was – the one yesterday – probably was related. It always happens but it probably was. When I heard about it, I figured maybe not. But it turns out probably was related – radical Islamic terrorism. And I’ll tell you what, we have a president that refuses to use the term. He refuses to say. There’s something going on with him that we don’t know about.
Now, as far as Hillary’s concerned, she’s going to go with what he wants.
She shouldn’t be allowed to run. What she did is criminal with the emails. She shouldn’t be allowed to run.
She’s going to have to follow his line because she’s on a thread. You know, look, in real life, his Attorney General, his U.S. Attorney, his Attorney General. So his Attorney General is going to listen to him in my opinion. I think it’s very dishonest what’s going on with our government.
Gen. Petraeus was given a life-changing sentence. Other people have been sent to jail. Petraeus was, you know, essentially – look, I don’t want to get into it with the poor guy. What he went – for nothing, compared to what she did for nothing, for 5% of what she did.
And Obama, I mean, she can’t go against him because only does boom she gets indicted. That’s the end of it. That’s the end of it.
So when you see Hillary backing up virtually everything he says, and he’s got control of her. I mean, it’s just total control.
But I’ll tell you what, she shouldn’t be allowed to run. What she did was a criminal act.
And remember this, this is a six-year – you have a six year statute of limitations. So she’s fighting for her life. If she doesn’t become president, she could have a real problem. Does that make any sense to anybody? Does that make sense to anybody?
Because what she did was just wrong. Okay? And you know she’s been involved in corruption her whole life, whether it’s Whitewater. I mean, her whole life is corruption.
She was a horrible Secretary of State. She did a horrible job other than traveled a lot. She traveled a lot, nothing ever got done. The whole – the world blew up around her. It blew up.
500 to 600 calls and emails and everything from our ambassador asking for help and she didn’t respond.
The truth is she doesn’t have the strength or the energy. She responded to her friends. You know the friends we’re talking about. Some of those friends are, you know, sort of an interesting friend going on there.
But she responded – yeah, you get that, right? A lot of people don’t get that.
But she responded to a friend, but she doesn’t respond to an ambassador that’s asking for help. Hundreds – hundreds of requests and she doesn’t respond.
Now, remember this, I go every night to someplace. I mean, yesterday I was in Manassas, Virginia, we had an unbelievable crowd.
The other day I was in Florida, we had 12,000 people in Sarasota at 12 p.m. with the football games going on. 12,000 people. The convention center held 5,000. So we had thousands outside. I made a speech outside. I made two speechesI said, "You can’t get me a larger convention center so I can do one speech?" My people said, "No, this is the biggest one. We set a record – a big record. We set a record everywhere. We beat the record of Elton John. It’s true. Elton John. I’m no longer competing with politicians. I’m competing with the musical talent.
One of the great musicians said "You get the largest crowds of any single human being on Earth without a guitar" meaning who doesn’t count on music.
So it’s true, we’ve had tremendous response. We’ve had incredible response.
I think you know if you look at what’s going on and I think based on the response, based on the polls – again I don’t want your money therefore you’re probably not going to support me because stupidly you want to give money. Trump doesn’t want money therefore we can’t – even though he’s better than all these guys, even though he’s going to do more for Israel than anybody else, even though Bibi Netanyahu asked me to do a commercial for him and I did and he won his race, so I was very happy about that. But he asked me to do a commercial. And they said I was the only celebrity. I don’t know if that’s – but they said I’m the only celebrity. I don’t know. I’m not a celebrity. See now I’m a politician. I’m so embarrassed by that term.
You know, my how life I’ve been a business, I’ve been a developer. I’ve employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. I have unbelievable statements and unbelievable company.
A lot of people said, "Oh, he’ll never file." This you’ll get a kick out of. "He’ll never run because he’ll never want to file various papers. And then he’ll never file this and that and then you’d have to sign your life away." The first paper – we all know about first papers. You sign your life away. That’s the end of it. He did it.
Then they said, "Well, he’ll never sign and he’ll never file his financials because who knows, maybe he’s not as rich as people think."
So I filed my financials – almost 100 pages. The biggest ever filed by the federal elections. And everybody said, "Oh my, it’s much bigger and much stronger and holy mackeral, look at these numbers!"
If I didn’t run, I’d probably would have filed anyways because you know I built a great company and I like to brag about it whenever possible. It’s true.
Some of the greatest assets – Doral, you know, Doral and Turnberry in Scotland and Trump Tower and many buildings in Manhattan. Just many – Bank of America building in San Francisco with a great partner and so many other buildings and things
And the reason I bring that up is because that’s the kind of thinking we need.
And I don’t bring it up as braggadocio. I bring it up because that’s the kind of thinking we need in this country to bring us back. We have people that don’t know the first thing about the word negotiation.
I can take anybody in this office, believe me, and they’re better than Obama and they’re better than Kerry and they’re better than the foolish people – the foolish people. It’s so embarrassing when you see what happens.
Sergeant Bergdahl, all right? Sergeant Bergdahl – we get a traitor; they get five of the greatest killers that they’ve wanted for nine years. You know, the deal was five for one.
And they knew he was a traitor before we made the deal. You know about Sergeant Bergdahl. He deserted. Six people were killed trying to get him back. They were looking for him.
The general and the colonel went to see all those people, they said, "No, he deserted. He was a traitor." And we still made the deal.
So we get a traitor. We can give him back. Do you want to re-negotiate deals? Some of us will re-negotiate deals. I would say about 99.9 – is there anybody that doesn’t re-negotiate deals in this room? This room negotiates so I want to re-negotiate – perhaps more than any room than I’ve ever spoken. Maybe more. It’s okay. I’ve been called on that a couple of times too.
But the fact is I want to renegotiate that deal. I want to drop him right smack in the middle of where he came from. The hell – they can have him even if we don’t get the five guys back because that’s not going to happen because you know where they are right now? They’re right now all in the battlefield fighting us and trying to kill us and kill anybody that gets in.
So they get their five guys that they’ve wanted for nine years they’ve wanted them and we get a dirty rotten traitor. But that’s the way our people negotiate. They’re stupid people. Okay? They’re stupid people.
It’s very sad. It’s very sad.
So I’ll just tell you that I’m going to win. I am. I’m going to win. I mean, unless something happens, you know, walk across the street, the wrong thing happens. But I’ll tell you what, I have a great secret service. Here’s a nice one, you’re number one, they give you a secret service. I never saw so many people – talented people, great people.
But I believe I’m going to win. I really have just a great feeling about it. And you know, my life has been about winning. I’ve won, and my life has been about winning, and that’s what I want to do for the country.
And if people say about my company and deals and you can do this deal or that deal, I have no interest.
It’s like the other day – Ivanka, she’s doing so great. "Dad, we can buy this wonderful office building and I said, "Honey, who cares? How can you talk to me about such trivial things, Ivanka?" It’s amazing. See? Now I’m dealing in trillions. I’ve never heard of trillions before. You know, with this – we owe $19 trillion.
We just signed a budget that’s so bad and the Republicans – you know, we know where the Democrats are coming from. But these Republican politicians, they go to Washington and they’re going to end Obamacare, which I’m going to do by the way – I’m ending, I’m terminating, it’s going to be repealed and replaced with something much better. But they go to Washington and they’re going to do this and they’re going to do budgets – like I heard the guy before "We’re going to work in the budget." It’s all about that. What happens is they’re going to do budgets like we’re going to do this and that and I tell this story – then they walk into the Capitol Building, which is magnificent, and they look up "Darling, oh my, look at those columns, look at the ceiling, look at the angels. Oh, look at these magnificent floors." They’ve never seen anything like it. "We’ve arrived. This is incredible." And then they become mainstream. "We’ll vote on Obamacare. Yes, I vote." They don’t want to leave. They lose all of their courage. I want to use a nice word because otherwise they’d get reported for foul language. They lose all of their courage and they’ve let us down. That won’t happen with me.
So, again, you’re not going to support me even though you know I’m the best thing that could ever happen to Israel and I’ll be that. I know why you’re not going to support me and you know you’re not going to support me because I don’t want your money. Isn’t it crazy? No, it’s true.
You know, if I wanted to have your money, I think I’d have a damn good chance and I think I’d get more money than anybody else.
Do you know the money I have turned down? This has not been my life turning down money. Guys want to give me millions.
I would have made – poor Jeb Bush, I mean, this poor guy with his low energy. It’s sad. No, it’s sad.
I came up with that term, it became so defining. It’s like having it on his forehead "I am low energy". No, no, it’s sad.
He raised $125 million, which means he’s controlled totally, totally controlled by the people that gave him the money.
That’s why you don’t want to give me money, okay? But that’s okay. You want to control your own politician. That’s fine. Good. Fine. Think about that, folks. Don’t worry about it.
I understand. Hey, five months ago, I was with you. Who’s better than me? Who is better than me? I gave $350,000 to the Republican Governors Association. I never even gotten a letter of thank you. It’s true. $350,000. I didn’t receive one letter, not one letter from one governor. Stupid. The good thing is I don’t give any – why would I give any more? You don’t get a thank you letter.
Politicians – remember this – politicians forget, politicians generally aren’t competent, and the one thing they are good at is getting elected and that’s what you’re going to end up having.
But I would love your support but I don’t want your money. I appreciate it. Now, let’s take some questions. Okay? Good.
I’m going to go there right after this. I have to go through – you know, you have to watch to make sure that the contractors aren’t stealing and ripping you off and everything else.
But to show you how important this forum is and how important the country is to me and how important Israel is to me, it’s so important, I don’t mention my projects. It’s not like very important to me anymore.
What’s really important to me is the United States and making it great again.
My theme is Make America Great Again. I mean, it’s taken off like crazy. The hats – it’s going crazy.
But you know, some of these guys try to copy it but I had it trademarked because we’re smart.
A couple of them got up. No, you see, I was making this speech and everybody stood up – make America great again But nobody stood up to them. But we sent them a little notice – don’t use that term. We’re trademarked.
Can you imagine I got the approval?
But we are – we’re building a great hotel down the road. I hope you all stay and it’s going to be wonderful
So I was interviewed yesterday by a whole group of reporters from AP and they did a very good job. Very fair story.
And one of the questions was about Israel and the Palestinians what’s going to happen.
I said – I used that as an example of some deals that are maybe the hardest deal ever in history to makeCan we think of any deals? We all have tough deals, right? You know, we have some good, some bad
But I said people are going to have to make sacrifices one way or the other.
I believe – because I’m a dealmaker – I believe that I can put both sides together.
But I said, it’ll take six months. At the end of six months and maybe sooner – with us we have a deal instinct. A lot of us. And you can walk into a room and you can almost tell like in two seconds whether or not you’re going to make a deal.
I will know very quickly whether or not I’ll be able to put that deal together.
I used that in this interview as an example of perhaps the hardest deal in history to put together. There’s probably no tougher deal.
If I could do that, it would make me so happy because there’s so much violence, so much death, and just been going on for so many years.
Now, I said you have to have a commitment to make it. I don’t know that Israel has the commitment to make it, and I don’t know that the other side has the commitment to make it.
With that being said, you know, I have a good chance of winning because you look at what’s going on. So I have a good chance. I don’t like to as a dealmaker give away a lot of cards by talking about how I feel about this or that. I’d rather save it for that moment when you walk into the room. I don’t want one side or the other saying.
Look, I think people know where I stand. But wouldn’t it be great if they could make a deal? But a lasting deal, a real deal. Not a phony deal that’s going to last a week and then bad things started happening again.
I’d love to – and I will give it. You know Obama, as you know he said it won’t happen, meaning he gave up on this before it even started.
But I think it would be a great thing for Israel – I think it would be a great actually for both sides if a real deal could be made, and I’m going to give it my best.
I’m a great dealmaker. That’s what I do. I made a lot of money. I’m going to give it my best. It would be great if that deal could be made.
By the way, Israel has given a lotAnd a lot of people don’t know that. I think the public relations for Israel hasn’t been so great because Israel’s given a lot but hasn’t been given a lot of credit for what they’ve given
In fact, some things have been given which were unthinkable and a lot of turmoil it caused in Israel. There were things given. But I’d like to go in with a clean slate and just say let’s go, everybody’s even, we love everybody, and let’s see if we could do something.
But I do think this – and I do think right from the beginning and that one of the reasons I’m saying it now even though perhaps it comes back to haunt me later on it has to be said that Israel has given a lot. I don’t know whether or not they want to go that far in a little step and you know that’s going to be up to them. But Israel has not been given the credit that they deserve for what they’ve done. I will say that. I will say that. So that’s it.
You know what I want to do? I want to wait until I meet with Bibi. You know, I’m leaving for Israel in a very short period of time. I know. I know what you’re saying. I just – you’re not going to be – who’s the wise guy?
Do me a favor. Just relax. Okay? You’ll like me very much, believe me. Okay? And you wonder why you get yourself in trouble. All right? You’re going to like me very much. It’s going to be fine.
But again, you can’t go in with that – if you’re going to make a deal and you could make a great deal – you can’t go in with the attitude we’re going to shove it down. You’ve got to go in and get it and do it and do it nicely so everyone’s happy. Don’t worry about it. You’re going to be very happy. Okay? Don’t worry about it.
I think he’s a very good man. I think he’s been treated very badly. I think that our president has been unbelievably rude to Bibi. I don’t know how many people like Bibi. But I think he’s been unbelievably rude.
And – I mean, we’ll talk about deals after the fact, which is a shame but I think the Iran deal is the worst single thing.
Perhaps it’ll go down – and I’ve been pretty good at predicting things. I think it’s going to go down as the worst single thing that’s ever happened to Israel. I think it’s a catastrophe for Israel.
And I think the fact that Obama was willing to make that deal for anybody that loves Israel to support this guy or even the Democratic Party is impossible to believe.
I think it will be one of the great catastrophes.
But if I get in, I will straighten it out, believe me. It’s going to be straightened out. It’s going to be straightened out tough and it’s going to be straightened out fast.
The one bad thing is if I get in, the $150 billion is gone. That hurts me and that hurts the people of Israel. But the $150 billion is gone because it’ll be gone before you get there.
You know, we’re talking about a year and more actually. Although the election very quick. You know, it’s coming up. It’s now less than a year and you know we have the Iowa starts on February 1st and then we go right down the line and it’s very exciting. We’re talking about a couple of months now for it to start.
For a person like me, I mean, it’s very exciting.
Well, I haven’t been working too much with the Arab leaders, to be honest with you. Okay?
You know, I told you I made commercials for Bibi. I don’t know if that’s going to help me in the negotiation. I can tell you. You know, I’m trying to keep it nice and level, right? Then I get people screaming at me. But I’m trying to keep it as level as possible but I for the most part don’t know.
The King of Jordan seems like a nice man. I mean, I don’t know. We’re going to see. A lot of people like him; some people don’t.
But I think I will probably be able – what my history – you know, I took some heat because I get along with Democrats, I get along with liberals, I get along with conservatives, I get along with Republicans. I get along with everybody. That’s what I was – I’m a businessperson. I get along with everybody. We have to get along with everybody.
And I took some heat and I always explained that. I said, "Wait a minute, I’m a businessperson. I’ve got to get along with everybody." I live in Manhattan. It’s all Democrat. I mean, it’s virtually all – Republicans don’t even run people for the most part and if they do they get 5%. You know, they get a very small percentage of the vote. Got to get along with everybody.
I think that’s going to be a tremendous asset because right now we have gridlock in Washington. We have people that – they don’t talk.
You know, I remember that years ago because I’ve been a very political person on the other side but always very political.
But years ago, the Republicans and the Democrats – they used to like each other. They’d get along. They’d have dinner together. They’d argue and they’d fight and they’d disagree and would have, you know, different views and things.
But in the evening, they’d go out and they’d have dinner together with their families. You don’t see that anymore.
There’s total hatred and there’s total gridlock.
I’ll give you one point, which I think is important. Corporate inversions. Right? So you have companies leaving the United States and they’re leaving because of better taxes and better a lot of things. A lot of things are better. But they’re leaving. Pfizer. How good is Pfizer? Thousands and thousands of jobs are going to be lost.
But they’re also leaving because we have $2.5 trillion at least – I think it’s a much higher number than that. $2.5 trillion – that’s out of the country that these companies can’t get back because of bureaucracy and horrible trade agreements but because the taxes are too high. They’re so onerous that nobody in this room would agree to pay that much money to get your money out.
So they leave it over there and they actually take the company and they move the company to the money because that’s how much money.
The Republicans and the Democrats totally agree that the money should come back. For three years they can’t get a deal. There’s no leadership. It’s gridlock.
There’s an example of something where everybody agrees – all the people that you see up here they all agree but they can’t get it done because they’re politicians. They’re all talk; they’re no action.
So there’s something and it’s so important. It’s not like something where they don’t get – like there’s big disputes and we understand that. This is something everybody agrees – the money should pour into this country and we should use the money and all the things – taxes paid.
But they agree and they can’t get it doen because of gridlock and incompetent leadership.
You know, honestly, I don’t think anybody can say. She says she is. But now she says all of a sudden maybe less so than you thought because she’s going very, very far over to the other side.
I mean, Bernie Sanders has brought her to positions that she didn’t want to be at. You look at some of the things that she’s saying right now.
But I’ll tell you what, whether she is or not, she doesn’t have the strength or the energy to help Israel. I’m telling you she doesn’t.
But just take a look. She’ll come out and do an event and you don’t see her for another four days, three days, five days. No, it’s true.
Think of it. We don’t need – some people say it’s not nice to say. She doesn’t have the strength or the energy.
Israel needs more than just our support. They need strength. They need real power behind them.
Because you know, you look at as these countries fall over there, Israel’s looking more and more – you know, Israel has some difficulties.
And one thing and I think you’ll all admit it. These people are fighting really dirty but they fight a lot better than we used to think. Right? We used to think "Oh, that was easy."
15 years ago with my friends from Israel because I have a lot of friends from Israel, they used to smile and laugh "Oh, don’t worry about it." Now they’re saying, "These guys are – they’re dirty fighters." And they’re not bad. You know, they’re tough. They’re not the JV. Okay? Obama said they’re the JV. They’re not the JV folks.
We need tough. We need General George Patton. We need General MacArthur. We don’t need the guys we have. I see them on television – generals. I don’t want my generals on television saying "Well, ISIS is very tough."
I saw a guy the other day. ISIS is very tough. I don’t know. I don’t need that.
Do you think General George Patton – they don’t like him because he was a foul mouth vicious horrible brilliant guy. So he would never make it. They probably would have had him thrown out years ago.
But we need Patton. We need a genius like MacArthur.
And we have those people. We have those people. I’ll find that person.
But we’re going to knock the crap out of them, I’ll tell you what. We’re going to win. We’re going to win. We’re going to win.
Well, I think radical Islam right now is, and I feel that’s the greatest. And again, we have a president who refuses to use the term.
But radical Islam is – I’ll tell you one thing I know isn’t is global warming. That’s the one thingI know isn’t.
I mean, we have a guy that just the other day who said – here they want to blow everything – this is right after Paris. They want to blow our cities up. They want to destroy our civilization, and he’s worried about global warming, which a lot of people think is a hoax.
By the way, I won so many environmental awards shockingly. No, it’s true.
And you know what I want to do? I want really immaculate air. I want clean, crystal water. I want a lot of things. Okay? I want a lot of things.
But global warming – you noticed they changed the name – they go global warming, they go climate change, they go – now I hear a lot of extreme weather. How can you miss with extreme weather, right? If it’s cold, it’s okay. If it’s hot, it’s okay. If it’s windy, if it’s hot – everything is extreme. So now they use extreme weather. It is a disgrace what’s going on.
And to have this man embarrass us by standing up and saying that global warming is our biggest threat, we got to get him out so fast and thank goodness we only have a year left.
Thank you. Thank you very much everybody.
It’s a great honor. I want to thank Simon and Schuster, one of the most magnificent publishers. For years and years, I’ve heard about Simon and Schuster’s being a fabulous – I was going to say the Rolls-Royce, I was going to say the Harvard or the Yale, but they really are a great one. And I want to thank you very much. You’ve given us such tremendous support.
And we did this quickly and I think we did it very effectively. It’s been an incredible experience.
We wrote a book and the title – "Crippled America" – is very tough but unfortunately we have to do what we have to do and I think one of the reasons we’ve been doing so well in the campaign is because we tell it like it is. We tell the truth.
And America is crippled. We owe $17 trillion and now $18 trillion and now it’s actually very soon going to be $19 trillion in debt.
We have a military that doesn’t have proper instruction from leadership. We don’t know what we’re doing. We’re losing all over the world with trade deals. Every country, no matter what country you talk about, you can just pick a name out of a hat, they’re beating us in trade.
And we can’t go on like this any longer. It’s impossible to go on like this any longer.
I always mention as an example Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor. We get Sergeant Bergdahl; they get five of the people they wanted and they wanted badly. And that’s not the way it’s going to work anymore.
So we write about it in the book. We tell lots of different stories of lots of different things. And I think it’s going to be very instructional, very important.
To me, it was instructional.
When I did "The Art of the Deal", I think one of the reasons it was so successful is that it was largely instructional. Even today when I speak, so many people hold up the book "The Art of the Deal" and the other books we’ve done.
So this is one that probably not since the Art of the Deal, I have to tell this to Louise and Simon and Schuster, have I worked so hard on a book and it was in a confined period of time. We wanted to get it out really, really quickly so that it pertain to what’s going on right now. It’s a moment of time. And we got it done.
And David did a fantastic jobAnd all of my people did a great job. They helped me so much because we are doing a couple of other things right now. So this was not easy getting this in.
But we see by the lines – the lines go down to Park Avenue. They’ve been forming since last night and I’m going to be signing books starting at 12 p.m. We’re doing a couple of interviews and then we’re signing books starting at 12 p.m. and that’ll be very exciting for me.
But we have fans that have bought the book and they just bought it and some have been online now for 12 and 14 hours. I don’t know how they’re doing this but they do it. They find a way.
So I’m looking forward to getting to the signings.
Well, I think it’s a different book. You know, we just had polls come out today from Iowa where I’m leading. You saw the new poll from Iowa. You saw the new poll in New Hampshire where I’m leading big.
A poll just came out in Florida where I’m leading big. Georgia, Texas. I mean, all over the place.
And I think you know look we’re doing well. And if you add Ben and myself we’re beating everybody by a lot. That seems to be the big story that we’re beating – they call it the establishment. It’s called really the failed establishment because the establishment has let us down.
But I don’t know. I don’t know how his book is doing.
Well, I think my book is very hard-hitting. His is a different kind of book and he’s a different kind of a person. My book is very hard-hitting. It says it like it is. And based on what Simon and Schusters just told me, it’s selling like hotcakes. So we’ll see.
We’re very different people. We have very different qualities and we are extremely different. And I’m different from all of the other candidates.
Look, nobody can negotiate trade deals like me.
We are going to take the $400 billion a year that we’re losing with China, that’s going to be turned around. The $75 billion a year that we’re short on with Japan.
The $50 billion a year that we lost to Mexico. And that’s right, there will be a wall built. It will go up. It will be built. And people will come into the country legally.
So I mean, much different than – you’re look at Marco Rubio – very, very weak on illegal immigration.
You look at Ben and he’s very weak on immigration and he wants to get rid of Medicare. I mean, Ben wants to get rid of Medicare. You can’t get rid of Medicare. It’d be a horrible thing to get rid of. It actually works. You get rid of the fraud, waste, and abuse. It works. So when a man is weak on immigration and wants to get rid of Medicare, I don’t know how he stays here.
No, I think that really Marco is over-rated. And frankly had Bush been a better messenger, he has the better message. I mean, if that was me delivering that message it would have been a much different story because he hasn’t been able to – Marco doesn’t show up to the United States Senate. He’s representing the people of Florida, which by the way that poll just came out today and I’m way up in Florida over everybody.
But Marco is a sitting Senator and he doesn’t show up for the people of Florida, and I don’t think he should be doing that.
Now, Bush gave a very weak message. I agree with that. It was poorly delivered. But the facts are on Bush’s side and ultimately I think Marco’s going to be hurt very badly.
And if you look at Mr. Singer, you have to see where Mr. Singer is coming from and when you see where he’s coming from, I think people are going to say, "Whoa, we didn’t know that."
But look at Marco’s stance on illegal immigration. It’s really trouble for him. I don’t see how he can win.
Marco Rubio’s personal finances are discreditAll you have to do is look at his credit card. I mean, he is a disaster with his credit cards. And I’ll tell you what, I love Florida. I’m in Florida all the time. And for years, I’ve been hearing that his credit cards are disaster. I would think that when you take a look at it, you would find that.
But his credit card debt and his problems with credit card and what he did when he was running the party apparatus with credit cards, I’ve heard about it for years. You’ll have to find out.
Well, he has a very bad record of finances if you look at what happened with his houses, with his – you know, he certainly lives above his means. There’s no question about that.
I’ll tell you what. On the debates, it’s very interesting. Because I don’t really care that much. I want a room. I want a podium. And let’s get going. Because I don’t really care that much.
But a lot of the people that are candidates who I respect – many of them, not all of them – but I respect many of them, they felt it was very unfair because Hillary Clinton was given all soft balls. I mean, she wasn’t asked one tough question. They didn’t talk about her foundation. They didn’t talk about any of the problems. They didn’t talk about the emails. When the email problem came up, Bernie Sanders lost his whole campaign. I mean, what he did was so stupid from his standpoint. In order to get a one-minute soundbite of some applause, he gave up the emails. That was end of his campaign.
First of all, people aren’t going to his rallies anymore. He’s finished.
So unless something happens to her with respect to the emails, she’ll easily be the candidate.
But I will say this: She only got softballs. That’s all she got.
And if you look at the way we were treated, it wasn’t the same way.
With that being said, I don’t really care.
Well, I think the Republicans actually are doing a pretty good job overall. They coalesced at that last debate because I mean, it really started with me. The guy asked me a question. I think Harwood is probably finished as a credible reporter. He’s a disaster. And he was – it was such as horribly put question and so obvious.
And the Republicans coalesced around each other. It was actually pretty beautiful when you think about it.
And all we want to do is to be treated fairly.
But with me, I don’t care that much. Just give me a podium.
What I would say is this: The networks have made a fortune because of me, not because of anybody else.
You know, they were saying that the last cycle, they had 2 million and 1 million people and the networks didn’t even want to broadcast it because nobody watched. Okay? Nobody wanted to watch.
Now, they have 25 million people, 24 million people, 23 million people and 16 million people. I mean, give me a break.
So somebody said, "How did they get there?"
And actually Variety and Hollywood Reporter, who do report this stuff pretty well – much better than the political press – they said "solely for one reason – it was Trump". I’ll take the credit.
But I’ll tell you what I also want. I think that Wounded Warriors and our veterans should be given some of the enormous profits being made on these debates – enormous profits – by the way beyond anything they’ve ever envisioned.
CNN was going to get $2,000 for a 30 second ad. They ended up getting $250,000. So they went from $2,000 to $250,000 for a 30 second ad.
The networks and the cable are making a fortune, and I think they should give some of the profits to the Wounded Warriors and the veterans. That’s what I want.
I’m giving them away. I’m giving the profits of my book – I’m giving them away to a lot of different – including the vets.
I have been amazing with respect to the hiring of women. This building was built as the head person who was fantastic by a woman and that was at a time when you didn’t see that in the construction trades. I mean, it was totally unique.
I have many, many executives upstairs and in different buildings that I have that are women. Many – a proportion that’s close to 50%. Might even be over 50% if I analyze it. And they get paid a lot of money – in many cases more than men doing the same job.
So women have always appreciated that about me. I’ve been in terms of employment really a standout and I’ve been honored for doing so well with women.
What Jeb Bush was saying at the last debate? I don’t know. But he didn’t say it well.
I like Telemundo by the way. I like it better than Univision. I’m suing Univision for $500 million.
Because the country is doing so poorly. It’s a very accurate title because the country is doing so poorly.
That’s good. They’re going to have some demonstrations. Oh, good because it’ll get even higher ratings if they do that. I think it’s fine. I think they should demonstrate. Ratings will go even higher than they are going to be. It’s going to be one of the highest rated shows ever. And they’re very excited about it.
And I have a great relationship, as you know from Telemundo, with the Hispanics. You’ve treated me actually very fairly. Won the poll recently in Nevada. Won other polls. And in Nevada, I think I got 37% and leading everybody.
So I have a great relationship with the Hispanics. I have working for me thousands right now – thousands of Hispanics. I’ve had tens of thousands of people over the year working for me. I’m a job machine. I’m a job machine.
And one of the things that does come out in every single poll and every single survey is that nobody for the economy nobody is even close. I’m two, three, and you see that – two, three, four, five times greater than anybody else.
And you’d almost say like it’s about the jobs, it’s about the economy. Then how’s anybody going to beat Trump in all fairness?
But I’ve had a great relationship with the workers. I’ve had a great relationship with jobs. And I’ve had an amazing relationship with the Hispanics. And I predict that I’m going to win the Hispanic vote.
I think I’m going to win the Hispanic vote. I predict, yeah, I think I’m going to get the nomination and I will win the White House. I think beating Hillary Clinton is going to be easy because her record is so bad.
That’s the question I like. How am I preparing for my SNL? Well, I’m meeting with Lorne Michaels in a little while. Afterwards, we’re going to sign – I guess got thousands of people on line but we’re going to sign and then later on this evening I’m meeting with Lorne Michaels and the whole staff and we’ll start the preparation. We’ll pick our skits. Am I nervous? Not too nervous. Not too nervous. But we’re going to do a good job and we’re going have a fantastic show. We’re all going to have a lot of fun.
My Jeb impression? No, I don’t want to do that. I don’t like showing a person sleeping at the podium.
Tom is asking "Can Jeb make a comeback?" I think it’s going to be very hard. Very hard. Not about money. I just think – you know, I came up with the energy. And I just think we need tremendous energy because we need a person that has tremendous personal energy to get us back on track. You can’t do that when you don’t have that.
I think Marco is highly overrated. Highly overrated. He doesn’t have it and all you have to do is look at his stance on things.
Jeb – he lacks the quality that you need.
We’re talking about everybody in the world is ripping us off. You need a very strong person with tremendous energy. Thank you very much folks, I’ll take the job.
But and it’s so important. And by the way, Ben Carson does not have that energy.
We need somebody with tremendous energy to straighten out the military, to straighten out ISIS, to straighten out our horrible trade deals, to terminate Obamacare and come up with something far better for far less money. You need somebody with tremendous personal energy as President.
We have a president right now that doesn’t have energy. I mean, you think Obama has energy? He has no energy. And he’s been a horrible president.
We need somebody with great personal energy as a leader so that we can make great deals with other countries and do well in every other respect. And certainly Jeb does not have that energy in my opinion.
From the Guardian. Ah, they treat me very nicely in Scotland. Go ahead.
Well, we just went over that. Honestly, we just went over that. And it’s only going to make it harder.
You’re going to see what we’re going to do. You’re going to see. But the whole thing with anchor babies, I turned out to be right. A person has a baby, lives in Mexico or lives in Asia or lives in many different place, has a baby, walks across the border, has the baby here. Now, we’re responsible for that person for the next 85 years. I don’t think so.
And by the way, I was right, they were wrong. The 14th Amendment does not give them clearance on that.
And if you wanted to do that in Mexico or if you wanted to do that in almost any other country where you have a baby in that country and that country has that person for 85 years including all of the costs of that person, they would laugh you right out of the country. You would be laughed out of the country so fast.
So, that turned out – I was 100% right. We’ll have to worry about that. We’re going to take care of it, and it’s going to be done in a very humane way.
But we’re going to bring back our country and we’re going to have a wall and Mexico’s going to pay for the wall and you know why they’re going to pay? And I have great relationships with Mexico and phenomenal relationships with the Mexican people. Phenomenal. And they buy apartments from me; they work for me by the thousands – by the thousands. Phenomenal relationships.
But let me just tell you we lose so much money with Mexico in terms of trade imbalance – $45 billion last year. Plus, we give Mexico billions and billions of dollars. They will pay for the wall. And it will be very interesting.
And you know what? People are going to come into this country but they’re going to come in legally.
A lot of European countries are going to build walls to stop the immigration.
Well, walls work. All you have to do is ask Israel. Walls work if it’s properly constructed. Not the walls that these characters, these politicians that we have running our country who are a disgrace – all talk, no action politicians – they build a wall this big, they drive cars right through it.
Walls work. All you have to do is go and see Israel. They will tell you that walls work.
We need pomp and circumstance. Our country has no spirit. Our country has no gravitas. Our country doesn’t feel good about itself. And the primary reason is we have no victories. I mean, where have we had a victory? Where have we had a victory in trade? Where have we had a victory as an example this horrible deal that was signed with Iran where we’ve given them $150 billion and we lose everything. We lose everything. It’s a laughing stock. Worst deal. Worst contract I’ve ever seen drawn.
We have no victories. And I do write about it. We need some pomp and circumstance. We need spirit. We need a cheerleader.
I thought seven years ago when Obama got elected, the one thing I thought that he would be a great cheerleader for this country. He’s not. He’s been a great divider for the country. He’s been one of the great dividers of all time.
I’m not saying dress. It has nothing to do with dress. It has to do with the fact that what he says is very divisive. He has been a great divider for this country, and that should not have happened.
I’ll go anyway they want. I don’t care too much about the debates. Look, I’m the one that gets all the nasty questions anyway. Nobody else gets the really nasty questions. In a certain way, maybe they’re defending me although I will tell you they’re not doing it for that reason.
I think it’s irrelevant. I just – I like the debates. I’ve had the debates. I’ve done well in the debates. As you know, every single poll said I won all three debates. Now, I don’t know if I did or not but I certainly didn’t do badly. But every single poll says – even CNBC’s poll said I won the debate.
So I like the debates. I think they’re good for me. But we have to be treated a little bit fairly.
As an example, Hillary Clinton – no tough questions. I mean, why didn’t they ask about Bill? Why didn’t they ask about all of the different things. No tough questions. Now, that was staged by the Democrats. And frankly, they did a very smart thing in the way they staged it.
Well, we’re going to stage something properly also.
But as far as I’m concerned, I really don’t care that much. I just want a debate. I think debating is a good thing. It’s healthy. Gets everything into the open.
But you don’t want people like Harwood that read a question – blah, blah, blah – that he wrote – that he carefully wrote. He thought he was such – his career – in my opinion, his career is probably ruined or certainly threatened.
He could ask about anything you want. I mean, you have to ask about anything you want. Hillary had only softballs. All night long. It was like this – "Here, Hillary, hit this one out of the park."
Are you from Russia? All right. I think our relationship with Russia will be very good. Vladimir Putin was on 60 Minutes with me three weeks ago. Right? Putin. And they have one of the highest ratings they’ve had in a long time. So I’m going to give him total credit. But we will have a very good relationship I think with Russia.
Now, maybe we won’t. But I believe we will have a very good relationship with Russia. I believe that I will have a very good relationship with Putin.
Sounds okay to me.
Well, I think there are a lot of economic issues. We didn’t talk about trade. We didn’t talk about devaluations. Right? We didn’t talk about corporate inversions, which by the way, none of the other candidates, they don’t even know what it means.
But we didn’t talk about corporate inversions where companies are leaving our country – massive companies – because they can’t get their money back and because they get lower taxes elsewhere. So they’re leaving and they’re taking their jobs with them.
The corporate inversion syndrome is a very important thing to be talking about.
These were all things that weren’t talked about at the debate. Instead, they talked about fantasy football. I mean, it was a big question – fantasy football. I’m saying what about corporate inversions? $2.5 trillion at least. I think it’s probably twice that number is in other countries wanting to come back and because our system is so corrupt and terrible, they can’t get the money back to invest in this country.
So they don’t talk about corporate inversions at the debates. They talk about fantasy football. Those are the few.
I was against the war in Iraq. You know, it was very early on. I’ll give it to you. Yeah, I have it upstairs
Well, you know, you have to understand, I was a developer. A lot of people didn’t care about my view in 2003 and 2004. But there was a Reuters article taken from a magazine about my stance in 2004, I believe, in July of 2004 and it talked about my stance on how I felt about Iraq. And I said very strongly exactly what happened. I said you will destabilize the Middle East and when you destabilize the Middle East, Iran will take over Iraq. That’s exactly what’s happening. And they will take over the oil reserves, which are among the largest in the world, and in addition other bad things will happen. The other bad things are ISIS. I said that in 2004 and that was an article that was taken from a magazine which was previous to that. I’ve felt that for a long time.
Do I think that it’s time for some of the other Republicans in the race that registering zero – in a couple of places they have a zero with an arrow pointing left, which I assume is a mistake because that’s less than zero. I assume that’s not happening. Do I think it’s time to have some of the other Republican candidates drop out? Yes. There are too many people. Well, I don’t want to get personal but you can look at the poll numbers.
Look, if a person is campaigning for four or five months and they’re at 0% or 1% or 2%, they should get out.
Like, you know, look at me. I go to Florida and look at the numbers that just came out in Florida. 37%? Georgia. I mean, those are real numbers. These numbers that these people have – and I often ask myself. I asked Mark yesterday, "What are they doing? Do they do this for their brand? Because I happen to think it’s very bad for their brand."
I think Walker did a good thing. I think the way Walker – he saw it wasn’t happening, wasn’t going to happen and he just got out quickly. You know, he was favored. Don’t forget. You know. That was before Trump was going to happen. Right? But he was favored for a period of time. Favored. Walker. Gov. Walker. They thought he was going to win.
What happened is he got out.
I think the way he got out was great. I think he did a really smart thing for himself.
And frankly, other people should get out because I would like to personally have more time to talk about the problems of the United States and more importantly how we can solve the problems. So it’s a great question. People should get out.
Ivanka. Oh, they just said one of the biggest applause lines – it’s true – I get is when I talk about my daughter Ivanka. She was just at Fortune Magazine for like something like Woman of the Year which is greatBut Ivanka is going to be very involved and Melania is going to be very involved very soon. They’re going to be coming out very soon.
Oh, Ivanka is going to Iowa. When are you going to Iowa? Very soon.
I would say – I don’t see threats. I mean, whatever it is I have to do. Mark is saying "What are the top threats to your candidacy?" Who knows? I mean, you’re in the crazy world of politics. People change their minds.
I’m going to make America great again. Nobody else is going to be able to do that. I’m going to do it.
I’m going to make it in my opinion better than ever before, and I think that’s awfully tough to compete with.
And one of the reasons that in my book I actually put financials in there – I showed some of the developments that – I have many, many more because you can only – Simon and Schuster – you actually kept me to eight or nine pages. Right? And there are four or five in a page. But I show some of the great developments that I have done that are so successful and so incredible and so financially good, I show my financial statement from a year and a half, two years ago. Now it’s even better but we didn’t have that certified yet.
So I do that not in a braggadocious way. I do that because that’s the kind of thinking our country needs right now.
We are run by people that are incompetent. We are run by people who in so many words – I hate to use the word stupid but you have to use that word. Unless they have bad intentions which I don’t believe they do. But we are run by incompetent people. We have incompetent leadership.
There are so many things. Like I mentioned corporate inversion. The Democrats want the money to come back. Who doesn’t? The Republicans want the money to come back. For three years, the Democrats have said we want the money to come back. For three years, the Democrats and the Republicans agree 100%. You have a vast majority. Maybe everybody. For three years. Guess what? They haven’t done anything. Right? They can’t even get along when they agree.
So here’s the thing where we can take trillions of dollars, bring it back to this country, rebuild big parts of our country with it, companies can spend that money in our country, we have everybody agrees it should be done for years and they can’t do it. That’s a part of the problem.
Well, you’re going to look – a lot of controversy with Mr. Singer. A lot of controversy with Mr. Singer. There are those people that probably wouldn’t have want him to back. But we’ll see. I’ll talk to you.
No, they all agree. They all agree. They just didn’t want to go through the unfair questions because they weren’t questions; they were statements.
You see, they were asking – they were giving statements in a sarcastic, disgusting way.
And by the way, I think Becky is terrific and I think Carl is terrific. But I think John Harwood is not very good at what he does. But I think Becky Quick is a terrific person. I think Carl is a terrific person. But I will tell you John Harwood was a disgrace to CNBC.
The question is should the Fed raise rates? They are not raising them because Obama has asked them not to raise them. In my opinion, he wants to get out of office because we are in a bubble and when those rates are raised, a lot of bad things are going to happen or potentially going to happen. And in my opinion, Janet Yellen is highly political and she’s not raising rates for a very specific reason because Obama told her not to because he wants to be out playing golf in a year from now and he wants to be doing other things and he doesn’t want to see a big bubble burst during his administration. Janet Yellen should have raised the rates. She’s not doing it because the Obama administration and the president doesn’t want her to. And if she does it, you see what happens every time there’s even a thought of raising them just a little bit.
And one of the problems that we have is our currency right now is not competitive with other currencies. Because if you look at the devaluations of China, of Japan, of many, many different countries, they’re making it impossible for our companies to compete with them because we don’t have leaders that know how to say to China, "Don’t do that. Don’t do that. Because if you do that, we’re going to put a big fat tax on you. Don’t do that." And you know what? If you said that, they wouldn’t do it. If you have the right messenger
I’m really focused on one very big election, one very important election, and there are some pretty good elections. I’m not watching any of them in particular. I’ll be watching them on Tuesday night. But I’ll be out there; we’ll be out voting.
But the election that I’m watching is the election for the presidency of the United States. That is going to be in my opinion this will be truly one of the most important elections we’ve ever had in this country. We’re so far behind. And we cannot go another four years with incompetent leadership.
That’s a good question. Okay. So, Simon and Schuster came up to me. They wanted to do a book. They wanted to do on success and how do you do this and how do you build it and that’s what the book is largely about but we talked so much about the country. And I said, "I’ll do it but we have to talk about the country."
What happened is they sent this incredible photographer up to do a book cover, do to a picture. And he did some greatphotos. I’m smiling. I’m happy. I look good. Everything was fine. And then he took one where I wasn’t like really thinking about a photo and then it turned out to be a nasty picture. And then the book was written and the title was given and the only really terrible picture I had was that one. It’s a terrible, horrible, nasty picture. But when you’re talking about "Crippled America" and you’re talking about all of the problems we have, I can’t have a big smiley face up there. So that’s how we picked it. We picked the worst photo taken of me.
I would have loved to have a beautiful smiling picture but somehow that doesn’t go with the title of the book or frankly the content of the book, and actually Simon and Schuster agreed with me. Okay?
Are the other Republicans afraid to debate? Well, some of them should be.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.
I was telling some of the folks backstage, I never ever thought we’d do this well this fast. This has been so incredible. What’s happened all over. What’s happened in Iowa. It’s been really incredible.
We’ve had some amazing results and they continue to come in.
Got a little shake-up in Iowa. I don’t know what’s going on.
Somebody said "Are you going straight to New Hampshire?" Now, I love New Hampshire. We’ve got great numbers. 38 to 12. That’s good.
But we fell a little behind in Iowa, and some people are saying how can it be. And I come out and I was just telling a group we have the biggest crowds, we have the most enthusiastic crowds.
Everybody said and it’s very true. I mean, look at this. Somebody else would come, they’d have like 50 people and they wouldn’t need this room. Believe me.
But everybody said without question in every poll – this isn’t just here – that the people that are with Trump are with Trump. They don’t go anywhere. They’re staying. It’s true. I see it. I see it.
And we’ve seen it.
You know, a couple of times I say "Well, that could be the end." Then they do something and I’m 10 points up. It’s the craziest thing, right? But we’ll take it.
But they say the people are with – we have the most loyal people by far. Everybody says it.
The other thing they say is for leadership, number one. Very important, right? Don’t you think? Leadership.
I mean, when leadership is number one – they say on the economy without question number one and by a lot.
So you know it’s great.
I thought I’d talk a little bit and I want to take some questions. You know, we can do a little question and answer. Right?
We have all these cameras going back here. And you know, it’s always tough when you’re on live television all the time.
Look, we have 10 topics. Right? How many topics? 10? How many different ways can you talk about the 10 topics?
The bottom line is we want results. We want to get it done. But when you’re on live television all the time all those people back there and the cameras are on and then you’re talking about immigration and you’re talking about the wall because we’re going to have a wall and we’re going to stop illegal immigration.
But we talk about trade and we talk about repealing Obamacare. And we talk about all the things that we talk about.
But you know, you have these points and we could talk about them in different forms, in different ways and give different examples. But in the end, it’s really about results. Isn’t it? It’s really about results.
And you can only talk about the same subjects on live television so many different ways.
I talk about industry. I talk about commerce. I talk about how we’re losing our jobs to all of these different countries. And I give different examples.
But it’s still going to be a certain number of subjects.
I talk about Second Amendment. I talk about Fourteenth Amendment. We talk about amendments.
You know, that Second Amendment, they want to take it away from you. They really want to do things and it’s not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. At least with me it’s not going to happen. That I can tell you.
So I said today you know we’ll talk for a little while but I want to do some questions and answers. I want you people to excite me for a change. Is that okay? I want to be excited. And so we’re going to have some fun. We’re going to do that.
A few things – I want to bring up a few new subjects.
So, immigration, we’re going to be doing a very strong number. It’s killing us. It’s killing us. And it’s bad for the economy. It’s bad for – all of this illegal immigration.
And I have to tell you legal – you come in and we’re going to have a good time and you’re going to be there and you’re going to do great – and visas – maybe work, maybe there are cases where you need people in and we’ll do something, we’re not going to hurt our economy in any way, shape or form. We’re going to make our economy much, much stronger.
But we’re also going to get jobs for people that are here. People with us. We’re going to get jobs. We’re going to get jobs.
But the illegal immigration – you know, I did this and I made my determination – I took a deep breath. Because I’ll tell you what, it takes courage to say I’m going to run for president. It really does, especially in my case where I have a great business and I love my business. I love doing it. I may never even see it.
I mean, I own some of the great properties in the world. Doral in Miami. I may never see it again Turnberry in Scotland, one of the greatest homes of the British Open and all of that. I may never see it again.
All of these incredible places that I have.
But more than that, it takes courage because when you do it, you’re putting yourself out there beyond anything that anybody’s done and it even takes courage for a politician to do it.
Now at some point some of these guys have to leave. Don’t we agree? It’s getting ridiculous.
Because like tomorrow night we’re having a debate, and I wish we had more time for the debate. Not in terms of three hours because who wants three hours? You know, I could stand up for 20 hours if I had to but who wants to watch that long?
Hillary’s debate essentially lasted for an hour and a half and I was – oh – it was – you couldn’t watch it.
You have Hillary against a socialist/communist. And honestly, he’s not going to win. Just so you understand.He’s not going to win and neither is she
Well, she’s being totally protected because in theory she shouldn’t even be allowed to run. She’s being protected.
It’s a tough game and it’s a nasty game but she’s being totally protected.
But she’s going to beat him and you still have one more of these guys. O’Malley. So he’ll be out quickly, I guess. I don’t know what’s he doing. What do they do when they have zero? They have zero.
And I wouldn’t say it against our folks. But they’ve treated me – some of the zeroes have treated me so nastily, right? Because they want to start controversy and they want to try pick up some points.
And you know what? I’m not going to even mention names. Usually I do. I love doing it. But everybody that’s hit me so far has gone down. They’ve gone down. And they’ve gone down bigly.
And a couple of the ones and zeroes – they’re the ones that hit the hardest. I mean, they’re like desperate people. But they hit.
One of them has a zero with an arrow pointing to the left. That means less than zero. And I don’t understand. What does it mean? I assume it’s a typo but maybe not.
But when you look at the things that are happening with our country – the trade situation with not just China – I talk about China all the time because that’s the main abuser, that’s the biggest abuser. The numbers are astronomical. Almost $400 billion a year in terms of imbalance. Think of it – $400 billion a year.
And they send stuff over here but we can’t send stuff over there. They tax us. Big tax.
A friend of mine can’t get stuff over there. The tax is so big. Big tax.
Somebody bought an airplane in China here. Can’t get it over there. Spoiled guy. Rich guy. Bought a beautiful plane. Can’t get it over there because the tax is so massive that he’s now selling in this country because China won’t let him have the plane and he has to pay a tax.
I won’t even tell you what the tax is. It’s so astronomical that I don’t even believe them myself. So I’m not going to say it because those guys will say "Well, he was wrong." All I can tell you is it’s a massive tax. Like you don’t buy planes here because if you do, you won’t be able to get them back in.
And here, we accept all of their products.
So we have almost a $400 billion trade imbalance with China.
We have a $70 billion trade imbalance with Japan.
We have a – you know, with all that’s going on in the South China Sea and you look where we have a destroyer – a relatively small ship – over there, I don’t know if I’d want to be the captain of that ship right now. But they’re being sort of mocked and scorned and a lot of bad things can happen.
But you know, we have an agreement with Japan and I love Japan. I love China. I love all these people. But their leaders are killing us because they’re smarter, sharper, more cunning.
The leaders of Mexico are killing us at the border and in trade. They’re taking so many of our companies.
Even Nabisco – my Oreos – they’re taking Nabisco. Right? I’m never eating Oreos. I tell it all the time. They had some Oreos before on the plane and I said I don’t want to touch them. Bring them back. I yelled out to bring them back.
But I’m not happy. They’re leaving Chicago and they’re moving their big plant to Mexico.
So when you see this happening, we have to stop it.
And I’m not going to beat around the bush and "Oh, let’s talk and let’s be nice and let’s say – " Nobody can do it like I do it. Nobody. Honestly, nobody.
We can – I’m not saying I’m perfect because I’m not perfect. Nobody’s perfect
Now, nobody’s perfect. But I’ll tell you when it comes to that stuff I’m really – there’s nobody better.
Carl Icahn endorsed me the other day. He’s one of the great traders, one of the great dealmakers. He says Trump, Trump. And he’s not somebody that just do it. He wants somebody that knows what they’re doing. He understand.
You talk about corporate inversions and all of the things that have been going on.
Corporate inversions. You know, many of the companies in this country have trillions of dollars cumulatively. They think $2.5 trillion overseas right now. They can’t get it in.
And everybody agrees that we should bring it in. The Democrats and the Republicans. They’ve agreed for years. They can’t make a deal because they have no leader.
It’s not like "Oh gee, we disagree on Obamacare. Or we disagree on something else."
Although I must tell you many of the Democrats that I speak to because I’m friendly with all of them. I’m friendly with like Republicans. I get a long with everybody.
You know, everybody says "Oh, you won’t be a unifier". I’ll be the greatest unifier of all. Why is Obama a unifier?
But I will tell you many of the Democrats who voted for Obamacare would never have done it now and were lied to 28 times. Right? "You can keep your doctor, keep your plan, keep your this, everything’s going to be great." Turned out to be a total lie. 28 different times that they know of and they wouldn’t have done it.
But when you look at what’s happening with corporations and the highest tax – we pay the highest tax anywhere in the world of any country – but they have trillions of dollars overseas. And these are great companies in many cases. They have thousands of employees. They can’t get their money back.
And the reason is bureaucracy. It’s very hard.
And also big reason the tax is too high. They don’t want to bring $1 million back and pay $300,000 or $350,000 tax. They’d rather leave it over there.
And if they bring it back, they’ll be using it to invest in our country. I mean, a lot of good things will happen.
I happen to believe it’s more than $2.5 trillion.
But here’s the thing and I use it because it’s so incredible. Here’s the thing. It’s not controversial. It’s not like you have the Republicans here and you have – everybody agrees. They’ve agreed you know that for 2.5, 3 years. They can’t make a deal.
And now what’s happening and this will be the next great story is companies are leaving the United States – two reasons – lower taxes but also to get their money. They’ve got billions of dollars overseas. They’re leaving our country in order to get their money and in order to pay lower tax.
And you’re talking about one company I know of – I don’t know how much they’ve written about it – but you’re talking about 6,000 jobs just one company. You’re talking about potentially thousands of companies.
And I say it, in the old days, they’d leave New York. People would move down and companies would move down to Florida or they’d move to Texas or they’d leave New Jersey, where taxes are quite high, and they’d move to another location. Right? Now, they leave our country and they go to other countries. That’s what’s happened.
In the world of the Internet and the world of very fast jets, it’s a different world out there.
And there’s no loyalty. They’re paid a lot of money to make a lot of money for their shareholders and some of them are actually foreign; they’d like to move back to these countries.
They bring in executives that are from Ireland, from other places. And they don’t mind. They don’t have loyalty to the United States.
So my plan, my tax plan, is something I’m very proud of. We’re going to solve corporate inversion.
I’ll tell you what, we will have that money back – if I get elected president, that money will be back so fast your head will spin. Nobody else will be able to do it. Nobody.
Honestly, nobody else even knows about it. The other candidates, most of them don’t even know about it. It’s not their wheelhouse. Okay? It’s not their thing. It’s not their thing.
Their thing is getting re-elected. That’s what they’re good at. They get re-elected. And they make promises and they’re all talk and they’re no action. And the same things happen with these politicians. It’s always the same.
So we have so many different things and what I’ve done with our tax plan, which something I’m very proud of, we’ve brought it down to a few groups.
Because right now, you have to go out – people who aren’t doing well go out and hire companies to help them with their tax plans. They’ll pay $500, $1,000 because it’s so complicated.
And we’re going to make it nice and simple.
And we’re getting rid of carried interest, which is something that a lot of rich hedge fund guys love. But we’re getting rid of it. They don’t love me so much anymore. But I don’t care.
And we’re getting rid of a lot of things.
So we’re going to have a nice simple tax return.
Somebody said "Oh, why isn’t everybody paying?"
You know, 40% – a big percentage – will not pay any tax at all. People that are doing badly.
They said – well, I won’t use the candidates’ name because I don’t want to insult any candidate when they can’t defend themselves. They said "We want everybody to pay at least something." And I said, "I agree."
Here’s the problem. From the standpoint of bookkeeping, from the standpoint of bureaucracy, you’re talking about millions and millions of returns. You’re talking about building the IRS even bigger and it’s a monster. And I could cut it down way down. And the money that you’re talking about is far less than the administrative costs.
So I said, "I agree. Except for one thing from a practical standpoint, it’s too much. Most of these people aren’t paying anyway."
What I want to do is bring our jobs back from China, bring our jobs back from Mexico, bring fairness to our deals as an example with Japan.
I was in Los Angeles. Ships – the biggest ships you’ve ever seen. Cars are pouring off into this country. Made in Japan. We give them practically nothing.
The balance is so bad. The imbalance is so bad. And then we have all the strikes.
See, what our people don’t know and only somebody that wrote "The Art of the Deal" or does this stuff. It’s natural. It’s like a great athlete. Like a Jack Nicklaus. He was always able to sink that putt. Right? You know, he’s just better. And you have athletes – very few – but there are some people that have a certain ability.
A lot of people don’t even know we have all the power. We have all the power in China.
You know, we owe right now China and Japan equally $1.5 – think of this – trillion. $1.5 trillion. Think of this. They take our business and in the case of Japan, mostly cars. But they take our business. They take our jobs. Factories close down all over the place. And we owe them money. Right? It’s a magic act. For them not for us. For us it’s a horror show.
It’s going to end. It’s going to end.
And people like Carl Icahn and the people like the best negotiators – I know the best negotiators in the world. Some I think are horrible people. I’ll be honest with you. I don’t care. Do you care if they’re horrible people? Who cares?
Now, Carl happens to be actually a very nice guy but he’s a brilliant negotiator and a tough cookie and he’s built a fortune. He doesn’t want money. He doesn’t want to say, "Oh, give me $200,000 a year in government money." He wants to do it. He’s proud to do it. He wants to help the country. And it’s so easy for him.
For instance, if I say "Carl, do me a favor. The trade deal we have with China is so unfair we’re losing $400 billion a year. Carl, do me a favor. Make it fair." I don’t have to give him a big speech. I don’t have to give him a big speech.
I mean, I can tell you that within a very, very short period of time, things will straighten out. I mean, things will straighten out and it’s going to be our benefit.
But think of it, if we’re losing that kind of money – that imbalance. It’s an imbalance. Some people will say "That’s not really a loss." It is a loss. If we have that kind of imbalance and suppose you brought it back to zero or even if we lost $100 billion a year, that’s a lot of money. Believe me, I couldn’t sleep.
If I brought it to $100 billion a year, get rid of me in four years, all right?
But suppose we brought it back to $100 billion or we brought it back to zero, do you know what that means to this country? Do you know the kind of money you’re talking about? Then jobs will start coming back, lots of good things would happen. Lots of great things would happen.
And maybe our babies who have all these toys all over the place, maybe they’ll have 75% and maybe they’ll like them better. Maybe they’ll be better. And they’ll be manufactured here.
Whenever I order television sets, I ordered thousands and thousands of television sets a year for different jobs. And whenever I order them, they all come from South Korea. They make all the television – other than Sony but Sony has sort of lost its way a little bit. Sony is Japan.
But South Korea – LG, Samsung. I don’t get bids from American. I’d love to. I’d love to.
George Will said there’s a company in South Carolina that makes television. I said where are they? I’d like to have a good name too by the way. It’s important. You know, when somebody’s paying you a fortune for a hotel room, it’s nice to see a good name. Right? Do we agree?
Well, it’s a company in South Carolina but they don’t make them there; they assemble them. They’ll order parts that come in and they’ll assemble them. But much different.
But I’d love it if we made them.
But you take South Korea. We defend South Korea for essentially nothing. You have the maniac over in North Korea that nobody ever talks about by the way. Now, he really has nuclear weapons and we don’t talk about him.
We made the worst deal ever made with Iran. Right? The worst.
These are the people that represent – these people are incompetent. Or stupid. Somebody said, "You shouldn’t say stupid. It’s not nice." But it’s true. They’re stupid. I think. I mean, I think. Unless I don’t know is there something going on that we don’t know about?
Think of it. Point after point, we lost. We lost everything. We’ve given them $150 billion. Hard to believe. They don’t have to develop – I was telling somebody they don’t have to develop nuclear weapon; they can buy it.
What the hell why should they develop it? They can buy it. And now all of a sudden they’re going into Syria. They got so much money. They’re a terrorist state. They’re going into all of these different places. We’re fighting them in Yemen and yet we’re making a deal with them.
So why don’t you say "Hey, Yemen out"? Our prisoners – I want them back. I want them back. I don’t want them over there. I want them back.
And all we have to do, very simple, is if you have the right messenger. I’m the right messenger. You know, I’ve gotten to a point where I have to be braggadocious. It’s terrible. Right? Because I can’t be so nice and say "We can all do a wonderful job". People can’t do those kind of stuff.
For instance, the wall. I said, I guarantee you that we’re going to build a wall. It’s going to be a real wall. We’re going to have people come through and they’re going to come through legally. Or they’re going to come through with visas, which is a safe way, if we need it.
And we want people to come through. I want people to come through. I don’t want to say no.
But we have at least 11 million – you know, the scary thing is nobody has any idea how many. You know, we’ve been hearing that number for years. You know, like 11 million. We have no idea. I spoke to one of the top people. They have no idea. Might be 5 million. Might also be 32 million. Could be 50 million.
But we have to get them out. We have to – look, it’s harsh.
Dwight Eisenhower – we all like Dwight. Right? Remember the expression. Right?
I go remember he got elected – "I like Ike". How could he be bad? All right? And I think he was a nicer general than MacArthur and Patton. And I like Ike as a president but I love Patton and I love General MacArthur. I love them. And we’re going to find ourselves a Patton and we’re going to find ourselves because we have a lot of smart guys in our military and women. We’re going to find ourselves a PattonBut we’re going to find a Patton and we’re going to find a MacArthur. And I’m really good at that. We’re going to find great people.
And I’ve told this story where I watched these generals go on television – they shouldn’t be on television. They shouldn’t be talking. You know? They shouldn’t be talking. They should be doing.
And they asked a certain general, I’m not going to insult him. It was like a month and a half ago. On a show. A talk show. I said here’s general so and so, one of the top, top, top people. I said what’s he doing on television? And he’s saying "Well, ISIS is very tough. You know, they spread out."
By the way, they took the oil that I said take. Remember I said "Take the oil"? Always take the oil! They’re being funded by the oil that I said take.
I don’t want their damned oil. But you know what? It turned out to be another benefit of having it. Take the oil. And we didn’t do it.
We shouldn’t have been in Iraq in the first place. And I said that in 2003. Shouldn’t have been there.
We totally destabilized the Middle East. We totally blew it.
But we were there. Then Obama announces because he’s so predictable "We are leaving on a certain date in a year."
Right? I couldn’t believe. I was sitting there thinking "Did he really say that?"
He said "We will have all troops out by a certain date." Right? Did he say that?
I said "No, no, tell me please."
Oh, you know what another one I got high marks on from every poll? Military. They think I’ll be the best in the military because they say I – you know, I always say I’ll be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I will. But everybody knows that, especially God. Everybody knows that.
But you know what I’ll be? I’ll be the great at the military. I’ll be so good. And I’ll know when – and I’ll build our military so strong, so tough, so incredible, nobody’s going to mess around. We’re never going to have to use it. We’re never going to have to use it.
And I’m going to take care of our vets. Believe me, they’re our greatest people and our vets are not being treated as well as illegal immigrants. I’m going to take care of our vets.
So go back. So the world is unpredictable.
I made a business deal a year ago. And the guy – oh, I beat him so badly. Aye, it was so beautiful. It was a beautiful thing. It was like a picture. For me, it was like a picture. That’s my own problem. I guess. But to me it’s like a painting when you could do something like that.
So I made this deal and it was great. And they called. They did a story on me recently and it was a nice story. And I said, I hope they don’t call this guy. They ended up calling this guy "What do you think about Trump?" And he said but in a respectful way, he said "He won because he was so damn unpredictable. We don’t know what the hell he was going to do." That’s a positive. That’s a positive.
I mean, if you’re a poker player and you’re predictable, you’re not going home with much money. Okay?
But it was really – I said, "That’s not nice what he said." First, I said "That’s not nice. I’m unpredictable." Then I said, "Wait a minute. He meant that as a compliment." And I called him. I said, "What did you mean by that?" He said "I think that’s the greatest compliment I can pay. We could not figure you out. You came at us from 15 different angles."
So with Obama, when he announces that we’re leaving Iraq on a certain date, we shouldn’t have been there but once you announced the bad guys – you know how they say the surge worked? You know why the surge worked? You know why? Because the bad guys all moved back. They said, "Hey, what do we have to get killed for?" I mean, these people don’t mind being killed, can you believe it? But they said "If we don’t have to, let’s not." So they moved back.
And they said, "Hey, they’re leaving in -" What was the date? Do you remember the date? Specific date to the day. "We will have all troops out. I’m a great president."
So the bad guys, meaning the opponents, whatever you want to call them, they just said, "Oh, you’re leaving in a year. Going to have all the troops out. Let’s go back. Why do we have to be shot at for the next year? And what do we have to do because if we do well maybe he’ll change his mind and stay. So let’s let him think he has this great victory with the surge." Right? "The surge worked!"
What happened was that everybody pulled back. They said, "Let’s wait."
Now we leave because of a lack of leadership. We leave and boom it comes apart. That’s what happened. That was the surge.
Everybody talk so much – "Oh, the surge was so great." The surge was great because everybody knew – they knew what was happening. They knew it was going to happen. They knew we were leaving even through Bush.
I mean, honestly, they knew we were leaving. They were fed up. So they pulled back and they said, "Let’s get them out." Everybody wanted to leave.
Now, I would have done it differently. Even if I wanted to leave and I might or I might not. I won’t even say.
People say, "Mr. Trump, what’s your attitude on ISIS? When will you attack them? Where?
I say "You know, I don’t want to talk – I have a real chance of winning. I don’t want to tell you what my attitude. I want them to guess. I don’t really want to tell you."
I mean, the one bad thing about our system, we have a system that got flaws. Let’s face it. Hey, look at our leadership, it’s got flaws.
But you know the one bad thing? When I gave that answer, they say – although some people – I see it here – some people say "We love that. We love that." But when I give that answer, some people say "Oh, Trump doesn’t know. He doesn’t know. He didn’t give an answer as to exactly what he’s going to do. Exactly what he’s going to do."
And I know exactly what I’m going to do and eventually after I was asked the question by 10 different reporters, all of whom are here tonight by the way, I said, "You know, here’s the problem. If I don’t give the answer, I’m not going to win because they write so incredibly negatively. So if I don’t give the answer, I’m not going to win." They’re going to say "Trump wouldn’t give us the answer."
They don’t know it’s unpredictability. They don’t know it’s strategy.
And I said for a period of time like a month, I said "I don’t want to tell you because I actually have a chance because from the time I announced, I’ve been on the top of the polls, almost at the top. You know, we’re doing well."
Iowa, will you get your numbers up please? Would you get these numbers up? I promise you I would do such a good job.
First of all, I am a great Christian and I am. I am. Remember that.
And I do well with the evangelicals. But the evangelicals left me down a little bit just last month. I don’t know what I did.
But I am a great Christian. I’m a believer and I believe in the Bible. And I even brought my Bible a month ago to a group signed by my mother, Mary, and with the address and the date – I won’t tell you what date it was because possibly you’d think I’m younger than that. But she didn’t want anybody taking my Bible because that was very important to her.
So cute. She has the address, has the date. But I said to myself, "You know – "
By the way, before I forget, will you get the numbers up Iowa please? This is ridiculous. I mean, what is my competition? In all fairness, in all fairness, what is my competition?
Do you think these guys – I’m not going to say Carson – I’m not going to say Rubio, who really is way down – I mean, I am second. It’s not like it’s terrible. But I don’t like being second. Second is terrible to me.
But do you think that Ben is going to go to China? These guys are fierce. Like they’d come into your office. I’ve made many deals with China. I’ve had great victories in terms of deals with China. They come into your office. There’s no "Hello. How are you? It’s a wonderful day." They come in – "We want deal." There’s no games. I do this for a living. I’m really good at it, folks. Really good.
And you know, when you talk about energy, I’ll tell you one thing, everybody agrees – oh, do I have energy. Oh. I toss and turn thinking about how I’m going to make the best deal for you folks. I’ll be tossing and turning. I will be tossing and turning. You’re going to have so many deals that is so good for you. We’re going to have numbers are going to be so good.
I always joke you may get tired of them but then I always take that back because nobody gets tired of winning.
We don’t win anymore. You know, think about it. Do we win at all? Ever?
We lose with the military. ISIS beats us. Everybody.
We lose with trade.
When are we going to come back and say, "We beat China" on a deal? When are we going to come back, "We beat Japan"?
Do you know that everybody said "Oh, Japan. They have so power over us. They have so much power because we owe them $1.5 trillion and they send all those cars."
They have no power. If we ever say, "Listen, if you’re not going to treat us fairly, we don’t want your cars anymore", they’d go out of business, folks, they’re gone.
Same thing with China. China is not even doing that well. But they just lowered, they just devalued their currency. The biggest in two decades. And the reason they did it, they could never thought but we have so many other problems that they felt, "Oh wow, we can get away with this and it’s going to make it impossible."
Did you see the results yesterday of Caterpillar Tractor? Horrible. Because they’re not getting stuff out because everybody – Japan and China in particular – is devaluing their currency. That’s their number one weapon. And the stupid trade deal that we’re making doesn’t even cover it. That’s their number one weapon and the trade that we’re making doesn’t cover it.
So I only say this and you know what? People might say "It’s terrible. He’s a terrible person, a terrible human being. But I’m going to vote for him anyways." Okay, that’s fine. I’m actually a nice person.
I always say this – nobody can do this stuff better than me. And I know all the guys I’m running against. They’re wonderful people. Some of them I really like. But who cares?
I was talking to one of the candidates the other day. I was talking about corporate inversions and they didn’t even know what the hell I was talking. They had no idea. It’s not their thing.
And unless we stop all of the things that are going with other countries and unless we make great trade deals, we’re being eaten alive.
That’s why when you look at the phony numbers, we have 100 million people in our workforce that aren’t working. Our real unemployment rate is probably 30%. It’s not 5.3%. That was done for politicians so they’d look good. It’s not 5.3%. How can you have 5.3% when you have 100 million people?
You look for a job. If you’re a young guy, that handsome young guy with the red hair, right therebut if he comes out and he goes into the workforce and he looks for a job and he goes through college and does well and then he can’t get a job and when he gives up because at some point after months you give up, they essentially consider you employed. It’s the most ridiculous thing.
We have a tremendous – tens of millions of people in that position. They can’t find jobs. They’re good people. They want to work. They can’t. But it’s not reflected in the real numbers because the politicians want to look good.
So let me just before we talk some questions, I’m going to talk about something I’ve never really talked about it onstage but we should talk about it. It’s called Super PACs.
It’s one of the great scams of all time. It’s one of the great scams.
So we sent out – I think I had – and it’s not me. People set them up. And I don’t know. Maybe they’re setting up for my benefit.
Let’s take me. A guy sees me, likes me, sets up a Super PAC. I don’t talk to him. I don’t do anything.
I think we had either 9 or 5 or 11. We don’t even know. They’re all over the place. Trump, Trump – one of them called The Art of the Deal PAC after the book.
They have all these PACs. And the money comes in. And what do they do with the money? I don’t know.
And we aren’t supposed to call them or anything. Okay.
So, we wrote a letter – a legal letter – to I think either 9 or 11 last week saying we don’t want their money, send it back because again, what do they do with it? If some guy that’s having a hard time all of a sudden has $2 million sitting in a Super PAC, do you think he’s going to take ads for Trump? Maybe and maybe not.
So we sent them a – it’s a scam, Super PACs, a scam. It’s a disgrace that we have. A disgrace.
And I’ll tell you I read a number with, as an example, with Ben. Ben is paying 70 to almost 80 cents on the dollar to raise money. So when you read he has all this money, he’s paying a lot of money and that’s not reflected yet. So when you hear they raised $20 million, they’re paying – now think of it, who pays – the number I actually heard was 79 but you know these guys will check them so I’m telling you it may be off but you all know it’s a lot.
I think they said, 79 cents on the dollar. Think of it. To raise the money, they take 79 cents before they get to use the money for what it was supposed to be. Somebody is making a fortune.
I know in Romney’s campaign, a couple of guys walked away with millions and millions of dollars. Millions. They became rich raising money. It’s better than being a real estate broker.
For the people and real estate brokers, they take these massive percentages of the money they raise. It’s a scam. It’s a scam.
Now, in Ben’s case, his Super PAC is running Iowa. And let me tell you, the people that are running that Super PAC, even if it comes in small donations, those are the real bosses. Those are the bosses.
In the case of Jeb Bush, you’re not supposed to deal with these Super PACs. Okay? So, it was in the Wall Street Journal the other day. He has a Super PAC fundraiser or something in a hotel and right next to it, he had his campaign ballroom. Did you read that? Two ballrooms. One here, one here, right next to each other by coincidence, of course. They’re not supposed to be coordination. They’re not supposed to be talking. They’re right next to each other. And that’s nothing compared to what some are doing.
It’s a scam and it should be stopped. And it’s unfair to somebody like me that is spending my own money.
And what happened and I haven’t talked about this before but I’m seeing what’s going on. It’s horrible what’s going on. What happened is the last time they had the Super PACs, I actually think there was sort of a wall. You know, they called it the wall.
And this is a wall too. Won’t be as good as the one I’m going to build but it’s a wall.
But it was a wall and they didn’t deal.
I mean, even though like Bush has a friend of his running his Super PAC, I’m sure they never talk. I’m sure. What do you think the chances are that they talk? 100% or 99%? 100%. I’d say 100%. I’d say 100%. Only a foolish person would say 99%. But whatever.
They’re not supposed to. But they put a friend in there. They put other people in there. They put whoever. And that’s the way it works.
And in some cases, I hear in Ben’s case, I hear in other cases, they’re literally running.
I mean, had Walker done this in all fairness because he had money in the Super PAC but he had no money in his campaign and he was unable to figure out this is what they’re all doing. That’s why he’s out of the race because he couldn’t figure it out.
The whole thing with Super PACs is a horrible, horrible scam. So I sent letters last week to as many as we could find. They’re all over the place. We want you to close the Super PAC. We want nothing to do with it. We don’t want to get advertisements. We don’t want any of the money. Go home and ideally give the money back. They don’t even have to give the money back from what I understand. They can keep it. They’ll probably if they actually raised money for me, they’ll say "What a horrible thing he just said. I think we’re going to support somebody else." They could do that.
But the Super PACs have total control over the people running for office. Total. Nothing over me. Nothing.
I feel it’s very unfair. I feel it’s a very unfair situation.
Now, if they want, they could have full disclosure and everythingBut what are they doing with this whole thing?
And I think it makes dishonest people out of people that might be honest.
But the Super PACs are controlling your candidates – some more than others. Some are unbelievable.
And what the press should really do is take a look at how much money is left. When you read that Ben raised $1, how much is left after he pays all of the consultants and all of these people, how much is left to spend in the campaign. You’ll be amazed. I mean, it’s so little.
Bush, it’s the same thing.
And I’ll go over – there are other names. I know every one of them. But it’s a horrible thing that’s taking place.
And again, last cycle, at least they went through the motions. Now, they’re not even going through the motions. They’re not even going through.
And just remember when I have to negotiate with companies to keep them in this country so they build jobs here and they build their plants here and their factories here and they do all of the things here, when I have to do that, you know, John Deere, I paid them tens of millions of dollars. You can even check. I said to John Deere, "I want an endorsement." I don’t know if they’ll give me an endorsement. I’ll tell you if they don’t they’re not so smart. I guarantee no other person gave John Deere – I mean, I bought probably more than $10 million worth of John Deere equipments. I love it. You know why? Iowa. Iowa. I love it. I love it.
When we can. By the way, it’s a great company. It’s a great company. But I buy a lot of stuff from John Deere because I have a lot of big developments that really require John Deere type equipment. I don’t have to buy it from them. I could buy it from others. But I want to steer it to them when I can.
But we have to do something to clean up this political mess because it’s crooked stuff. It’s crooked stuff. And it’s got to stop.
And it’s very unfair to people who go out and do it the way you’re supposed to do it, including me. I think I’m the only one that’s self-funding. I’m the only one putting up my own money, other than – I know it’s precious – people write in to DonaldJTrump.com or whatever and they send me checks like $20. I keep saying the woman for $7.50, $50, $100. I don’t want their money. But if you send it back it’s totally insulting.
I mean, they always write letters too. They write these beautiful letters – "Mr. Trump, I can’t afford much and I know you don’t need it but I’m sending $50 because that’s so important what you’re saying about the country." It’s beautiful.
I mean, I’ve seen such beautiful letters. And if I send it back, there’s no letter I can write that’s not going to be insulting to those people, really. "Dear Mr. So and So or Mrs. So and So, I don’t need your money and thanks a lot but we’re going to do it ourselves." If I got that back, I’d say "Who the hell does he think he is?"
So we take that and it’s something that I think is important.
So I always preface it by saying I don’t consider that funding but I’m self-funding my campaign and I’m getting ready to put up millions, millions.
And something I’m very proud of that I think it’s great and it’s you know really great, it hasn’t gotten very much publicity, hasn’t gotten much publicity, but I have spent less money than any other candidate. Okay? By far. I think. I don’t know, probably a couple of guys that have nothing so they just go aroundBut I was told that I spend less. And I have the best results because in most polls I’m number one.
Now, until Iowa came along, I said "every poll", and then Iowa – what the hell are you people doing to me? You know? You know?
I’m telling you. They said, "Why don’t you skip Iowa?" They told me that. Everybody said "Skip Iowa". All of the political geniuses.
A man just interviewed me back there, great reporter. He’s actually a great reporter. Of course, if he writes a bad story, I won’t say that. But he is. He’s a great reporter.
And he said, "Would you ever think of maybe skipping Iowa going right to New Hampshire? And then you’d go to South Carolina" where I’m leading by massive – yeah, you’ve got to see the rallies there. They’re incredible.
"But you’d go to New Hampshire. You’d go to South Carolina. You go to Nevada. You go to the SCC."
I said I can’t do that because I have such an unbelievable relationship with the people from Iowa that I think we’re going to win. I really do. I believe it. I believe it.
And I don’t want to skip Iowa. I think we’re going to do well. I think we’re going to do great with evangelicals. I think a lot of things are going to come out over the next period of time that are not going to be so good for our opponents, honestly, and I think I’m going to do great with the evangelicals because I am the real deal. I will tell you that. I’m the real deal.
So I told these political pros, you know, I hate to say it but the last long number of elections on the Republican circuit, the person that won Iowa did not get the nomination. Okay? I want to take away some of your muster. You understand that.
So could we do – and please do me a favor? Let me win Iowa. And then I’m going to win, I’m telling you we’re going to win New Hampshire, and we’re going to win South Carolina.
A great poll just came out on North Carolina just a little while. A PPP poll. It was great. Some of you saw that. But great poll.
But we’re going to go on and we’re going to win. We’re going to win.
And actually, one of the pundits – because you have some smart pundits and some very, very dumb pundits. A lot of pundits said "He’ll never run. He’s not going to run." They’re still trying to recover.
But one of the very smart one says "If Trump wins Iowa, it’s over." It’s interesting because it will go right through because everywhere else is so great.
And I thought it was good here. Come on. Okay, so that’s the end of that.
But I want to tell you, will you – I refuse to say "Get your asses in gear." I will not say that. I will not say it. I will not say it because I don’t want to use anything that’s even a little bit off.
So will you please do me a favor and work with my people and go out on Feb. 1stand vote and give us a victory?
And if I win Iowa, we’re going to run the whole table and we are going to make such great deals and we’re going to have such a great military and we’re going to take care of our health care without that crazy Obamacare that’s a nightmare.
So, I’m sticking with you people. I’m going to spend money here. I have a great team over here. And I will tell you I’m going to spend a lot of time here and I really want to win Iowa and I think we should and it’s so important. And you know, it’s about time that Iowa could have a victory and let that person go onto a total victory. Okay? Not like over the last – right?
So, I love you all. I mean, we’re having fun. But I love you all. But I do mean it. I’m going to stay here. We’re going to work really hard.
When I heard the poll today, they said "What are you going to do?" I said, "I’m going to work harder in Iowa." I’m not leaving Iowa. I’m not leaving Iowa.
Now, if I lose Iowa, I will never speak to you people again. That I can tell you.
Okay, let’s do a couple of questions. Right? Come on.
You know, we have now and the numbers they just came out we have 50 million people in poverty in this country.
Now, you look like you’re doing pretty well in all fairness. But still, we have 50 million. We have 46 million people and they’re getting food stamps. 46 million. Think of it. You know, we talk about how well we’re doing.
So we have 50 million – almost 50 million each between poverty, food stamps, and it’s got to end.
One of the problems – we don’t have enough jobs in this country. It’s very simple. You know, it’s so simple when you think about it.
Our jobs have been taken away.
And I’ll tell you what else, middle income folks – their salaries haven’t gone up in 12 years. People are making less wages now than they were 12 years ago. And other things have gone up. So they’re really doing much worse than they were doing 12 years ago.
But that’s an amazing stat.
But people – one of the reasons they say I’m doing so well because I let people know we’re going to bring jobs back. We’re going to bring industry and plants. We’re going to bring it all back and nobody else can say that. We’re going to bring it back because a lot of the folks in this room are doing worse than they were 12 years ago and they’re working.
Then the other thing, you have a lot of part-time jobs. I have some people that I know very well and they’ve had a job for 20 years at the same place. All of a sudden they’re working part-time because of Obamacare because from an accounting standpoint, it just works better. They love the owners, the stores and things. They love the owners; they think the owners are great. But the owners are forced to make part-time jobs; they have part-time jobs. They work all their life. They have a wonderful company that they’re working for, and now all of a sudden they’re cut into part-time jobs because of Obamacare because of the rulings of Obamacare. And you all know what I’m talking about.
So they end up being part-time workers and they don’t want to be part-time workers. They don’t even like the psychology of being called a part-time worker. And we’re not going to have that stuff anymore. We’re not going to have it any more.
We’re going to have real jobs and the numbers are going to go up. Believe me. The numbers are right now worse than 12 years ago and that’s a shame
Tell you what, as President, I can guarantee it. As Trump, I can say I’ll probably be able to pull it off anyway because they know it won’t stop. It’ll be easier to take Todd and just say, "Look, we’re going to work with you, Todd. Okay?" So will you get me that number and everything and we’ll make sure that everything get – and somebody else – who else over here? You have problems with the VA also, huh? Terrible?
I hear only – I just hear terrible. And we’re going to solve that problem. You know, it can be solved.
The waits now for the VA are longer than they’ve ever beenThe waits now are worse than they’ve ever been. Thousands of people dying waiting for a doctor. Okay, dying.
And you find the same thing, you say. You have to use your own because they won’t do anything.
So we’re going to take care of our vets and we’re going to take care of the VA and it’s going to be one of the things we’re going to be releasing pretty soon.
But one of the things we’re going to do with the VA, we have a lot of hospitals that aren’t doing any business. We have a lot of private doctors that could do more business.
We’re losing a lot of our doctors because of Obamacare. They’re retiring. They’re leaving.
One of them – a friend of mine – said "I have more nurses working for me now more than before but I have more accountants" and the end result is a disaster; he’s getting out of the business. He’s got nurses but he’s got more accountants than he has nurses because the paperwork is so crazy.
So one of the things we’re going to do is if Todd or if you or if somebody has problems because of the wait – because the waits are unbelievable – 5, 6, 7 days sometimes. They’re going to a private doctor. They’re going to go to a private hospital. Or a public hospital that’s in the area. And we’re going to pay for that and it’s going to cost less money – it’s going to cost less money than the system we have now – and you’re going to end up getting much better care. It’s going to cost less and you’re going to get better care
So the Keystone Pipeline, first of all, I’d approve it because it’s thousands of jobs. Okay? I would approve it so fast, so fast.
And Hillary should have approved it.
You know, Hillary wanted to approve it but she’s been dragged so far left, that’s she’s – forget it. It’s a disaster.
So I would approve it.
But with that being said, I may want to make a better deal because you know what? We’re bringing oil from Canada. Right? I may say, I want 10%. We’re going to approve it but I want 10%, 15%.
Because the truth is that the Keystone Pipeline was better a while ago than it is now because we have so much because of new technology, we have so much energy underneath our own feet with the fracking and all of the other things that have emerged over the last five years, we have so much energy. And it’s great stuff.
We have really great quality, higher than Canada. You know, they have the tar sands, which is a problem for them. Very expensive to get it out.
We have great stuff. So I would approve it because I love the jobs of building it. I love the jobs of building it.
But I may just say, maybe we should get 10%, 15%, maybe 20% as that oil flows through our land. You know, maybe we should do that.
So I’m going to look into that. But when I approve it – I’ll tell you what, when I approve it, it’ll be a great deal for the United States. It won’t be like – because right now, what we’re doing is we’re approving it, we’re not really getting anything. They’re putting it underground, and that’s actually good environmentally. Better than having trucks going down the road and everything else. That’s good environmentally. But we’re not getting – we’re not getting – anything much for it.
When I get finished with the Keystone, they’ll be happy and we’ll be happy. Okay?
Well, I’ll tell you in all fairness, Ben Carson said yesterday or the other day that he wants to abolish Medicare. Okay? And you know what a disaster that is. Now, I’m sure at some point, he’ll take it back. But he said he wants to abolish Medicare and one thing, people do like their Medicare; they do like it.
And you are bringing up a point that I’ve heard before. We’re going to look at a lot of different things.
But we’re going to save Social Security, we’re going to save Medicare and that’s the way it is. Okay? We’re not abolishing like other people.
Okay, it’s a lot of people but you know what? It’s costing us $200 billion a year immigration in this country right now.
And Dwight Eisenhower is going to say he moved 1.5 million in the 1950s, early 1950s, moved them out.
We have tremendous illegal immigration problems. Dwight Eisenhower, nice guy, he moved 1.5 million people out of the United States. And you know what happened? He moved them right across the border and they came back and they moved them again and they came back. They moved them a third time, they came right back.
And then you know they were tougher in those days. They moved them all the way south – all the way south – and they didn’t come back.
Now, we have to do it. We have no choice. We either have a country or we don’t.
And I want them to come back. But I want them to come back with papers. I want them to come back legally. I want them to come back. The good ones. The good ones. But only the good ones.
We got some bad ones. Remember the heat I took with illegal immigration? Remember that heat? For two weeks. Rush Limbaugh said "He has received more incoming than any human being I’ve ever seen." And then he double-downed
You know what? I took a lot of heat and then you had Kate in San Francisco, killed, shot in the back and so many others. And people started looking.
And let me tell you, we have some wonderful people over here and they’re here illegally but they’re wonderful people. Okay? And we’ll try to get them back real soon and we’ll do it through a legal process.
But we also have some really bad gang members. You know, some of the gangs in LA. They’re made up of illegal immigrants.
And we have unbelievable police forces that don’t get the respect that they should get. They don’t get it. I mean, what they go through, it’s unbelievable. They’re afraid to talk to anybody. They don’t want to lose their jobs. They don’t want to lose their pensions. They can’t talk.
Now, let me just tell you something. You can always have bad apples. In this room, we have a couple of bad apples. Okay? I don’t know who they are or where they are but you do. Probably mostly back there in the press.
But the police do an unbelievable job. And they know the gangs. You go to LA the LA cops. You got Chicago, the Chicago cops. These people are amazing people if they would be allowed to do their jobs. But they’re not allowed to do their jobs.
And we’re going to get the bad ones out of here so fast and they’re not coming back and I don’t want to put them in our jails because I don’t want to subsidize these various countries where they come from for the next 45 years. I don’t want them in our jails. We have hundreds of thousands right now in our jails. I don’t want them in our jails.
I heard a couple of these candidates saying, "Well, they’re – " They’re such babies.
But you know what? They’re talking about putting them in jail. Well, I don’t want them. Our jails are over-brimming. I want to use our jails for people that are supposed to be there. Okay? And I don’t want to put these really bad dudes – I mean, they are bad – I don’t want to have to pay for them for the next 45 years. Okay?
And we’re going to deal very humanely with the good people and they are mostly good people. But we’ve got some real bad ones and they’re out of here. Your head will spin probably.
Somebody said the other day, "What’s the first thing you’re going to do?" Well, we’re going to work immediately on repealing Obamacare.
You know, the one good thing about executive orders? The one good thing? You know, Obama signed an executive order where everybody just come in. Come in.
We have great border patrol people. I got to know them a couple of months ago when I went down to Texas to the border. They’re great people. They’re not allowed to do their job. They stand there and watch people walk right in front of them smiling at them. They want to do their job; they’re not allowed to.
So the executive order that President Obama signed, the one good thing about an executive order, in the first minute in office, I will counter-sign and revoke those executive orders. They’ll be revoked. The only good thing.
It’s actually the only good thing about an executive order is that a new president can just do a signature and that’s the end of that.
So we’re going to clean up our border. We’re going to make it fantastic. We’re going to be proud to be a country again and a lot of good things are going to happen.
We will support Israel 1,000%.
Israel feels so left alone and I know BiBi and a lot of my friends are from Israel and they feel so left out.
And so many people say, you know, I have so many Jewish friends where they say why did I support Obama? I think he’s the worst thing that’s ever happened to Israel. And we will support Israel beyond anything they ever have before. Okay?
That’s an easy one. That’s the easiest question of the night!
The wall is a big factor. 60%, 70%. The drugs are a great question.
We are going to stop drugs.
Look, I told you before – Mexico – $45 to $50 billion. That’s not including the drugs. The drugs that are coming across the border are beyond belief.
Did you see the picture last week where they had a little wall this big and they built a ramp for trucks to go over it with trucks? Did you see the picture? They think we’re playing games.
And Mexico is not helping us. Mexico is not helping.
Do you know if you want to become a citizen of Mexico – I love the Mexican people. I have many Mexican people and Hispanics working for me. In Nevada, I’m number one. I’m rated number one in the polls with the Hispanics. Everyone’s shocked.
Because the Hispanics that are here legally, those people they want me, they know I’m going to bring jobs and everything else. They don’t want people pouring in.
But I will tell you Mexico has got to help us.
You know, if you want to become a citizen of Mexicodo you know it’s one of the hardest countries in the world to become a citizen of? And yet, people pour right through into us, into us. They call us the dumb Americans. That’s what they call us because of our leaders. They call us the dumb Americans.
If you want to become a citizen of Mexico, you could take the best person in this room, the most qualified, you’re not going to do it. They don’t do that.
And if you’re there illegally and if you overstay your bound? You’re not going to be there illegally. But if you have a pass for two weeks and you overstay your bound, they have cops waiting for you. They have police that say, "You know you have one day left." I hear it’s unbelievable. I’m impressed actually. Because to a certain extent, that’s the way it’s supposed to be.
But if you want to become a citizen of Mexico, it’s impossible. They don’t have anchor babies in Mexico. You’re born a baby in Mexico, it’s like bye-bye.
Here, you’re born over here, "Oh, congratulations we’re taking care of the baby for 85 years." Not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. No, it’s not going to happen.
By the way, this is important, I sort of lucked into this one. The 14th Amendment. It says right there – you know, everybody says you have to go through a whole process, it’ll take many years, you have to go through every state. You have to do another amendment. It’s wrong. 14th Amendment covers it.
And some of the best legal minds in the world say "Trump is right." I said, "What? I am? I didn’t know." I lucked into it. Every once in a while you luck.
The fact is somebody comes in illegally and they have a baby, we’re not responsible. Now, we may have a court case but we’re going to win it. And a simple act of Congress gets rid of it. And a lot of people didn’t know that. Okay?
And the reason I said it can be possible because nobody could be foolish enough to allow a thing like that. How could it be possible? And we’re one of the only countries where that takes place.
And honestly, I use Mexico as an example because they’re so tough. If that happens in Mexico, they don’t even know what you’re talking about. What are you talking about? But with us? No good. Not going to happen anymore.
Well, you know, the amazing thing is that the politicians in this country live by a whole different standard when it comes to health care, when it comes to everything they have including what you just said about Social Security.
Our politicians live by a different standard and I think that shouldn’t happen. And some of them tried to do it.
You know the story in Obamacare, they don’t have to take it. They live by a different standard. And that’s not going to happen. Everybody’s going to live by the same standard. They’re going to have the same standard as the poorest person in this room. That’s the way it’s going to be.
It’s a good question. But do you know if I answer that question, we’d have a big, big story. You know that, right?
You know, I’ll tell you, it is a question that’s asked a lot.
I know a lot of good people. A couple of people on the stage that I really respect, I’ve gotten to respect.
But the truth is too early. I like to get things done first. We’ve got to close the deal. I don’t want to think about it.
There are a lot of good people. There are a lot of good people. We’ve got to close the deal. We’ve got to get it done. And to get it done, I want Iowa.
So good luck everybody. Thank you very much. I love you. I love you. Thank you. And we’ll be back. Thank you.
So, we’re going to be discussing something so important for our country, for our economy, and for getting us all working again and working well again.
It’s a tax reform that I think will make America strong and great again.
Too few Americans are working. Too many jobs are being shipped overseas. And too many middle income families cannot make ends meet.
This plan directly meets these challenges and the challenges also of business.
It will provide major tax relief for middle income and for most other Americans. There will be a major tax reduction.
It will simplify the tax code. It will grow the American economy at a level it hasn’t seen for decades.
And all of this does not add to our debt or our deficit.
But I will also be discussing some of that at the end because we have to make much better deals, we have to negotiate much harder, and we’ve got to make our economy strong.
Changes for individuals will be at levels that you haven’t seen in a long time.
We’re going to cut the individual rates from 7 brackets to 4. Simplification. 25%, 20%, 10%, and 0%.
If you’re single and earn less than $25,000 per year or married and jointly earn less than $50,000 – so, very important. If you’re single and earn less than $25,000 or married and jointly earn less than $50,000, you’ll not pay any income tax – nothing.
This eliminates very strongly and quickly the marriage penalty. Very unfair penalty.
It eliminates the AMT, which is the alternative minimum tax.
It ends the death tax. It’s a double taxation. A lot of families go through hell over the death tax.
It reduces or eliminates most of the deductions and loopholes available to special interests or to the very rich – in other words, it’s going to cost me a fortune, which is actually true – while preserving charitable giving and mortagage interest deductions. Very importantly.
It ends the current tax treatment of carried interest. Those are the hedge fund folks that I’ve been talking about for quite a while. They make a lot of money. Carried interest.
So it ends the current tax treatment of carried interest through speculative partnerships that do not grow businesses or create jobs and are not risking their own capital.
Changes for business – now, so important, because it’s all about business. It’s all about jobs.
We have 93 million people in this country that are in serious trouble, that want to work; they can’t work.
So for business, no business of any size from a Fortune 500 company to a mom and pop shop to a freelancer living from gig to gig will pay more than 15% of their business income in taxes. Big reduction.
A one-time deemed repatriation of corporate cash held overseas at significantly discount which coming back at a significantly discount – 10%. So it comes back discounted at a 10% tax rate and ends the deferral of taxes on corporate income earned abroad.
Now, it’s called corporate inversion. It’s a huge subject.
I’ve been watching politicians now for years – all talk, no action politicians. I’ve been watching them for years talking about bringing this money back.
The number is probably $2.5 trillion.
Everybody agrees it should come back – Republicans, Democrats, everybody.
They can’t make a deal. They don’t know how to go about making a deal.
The reason companies aren’t bringing it back is the tax is onerous. It doesn’t make sense to bring it back.
And in fact, many companies are leaving the United States. They’re leaving our shores to go and collect their money.
They’re going actually moving out of the United States for two reasons – the taxes are too high and because they have tremendous amounts of money that they can’t bring back into this country when everybody wants them to bring it back in.
It’s called leadership.
We will have that money brought back in.
As an example, I have millions of dollars overseas. I can’t bring it back into this country. We filed papers. We’ve been doing this for a year and a half. We can’t get it back in.
So the money stays in other countries and that’s what happens. Not good for us.
The level of leadership that we need to get things like this done is so important. But this is something – and I’ve been watching it for a long time – everybody agrees to.
We also reduce or eliminate some business loopholes – many of them actually – and deductions made unnecessary or redundant by the new lower tax rate on business income.
The tax rate now is so low that a lot of these deductions which are complicated, which don’t make sense, and which are unfair are gone.
And we phase in a reasonable cap on the deductability of the business interest expense.
So we are going to give you – we have a very complex set of papers that actually if you know business is not so complex. And we’re going to hand them out right now to the press.
And I think you’ll see we have an amazing code. It will be simple. It will be easy. It will be fair.
It’s graduated. As you get up in income, you pay a little more.
Some of the very unfair deductions that certain people have been given who make a lot of money will not be available any longer.
But I actually believe they’ll do better because I think the economy will grow. It will grow rapidly. And we’ll have something very special.
Now, with all of that being said and before we take some questions, we have to cut the costs of what’s going on in this country.
If you look at what we’re doing and the money we’re spending. I read where a washer – you know what a washer is? Nuts, bolts, and washer – to send from one state to another, it was a 19 set washer and it cost $900,000 and some odd dollars to send it from here to there.
And there are many examples. Hammers that cost $800 that you can buy in the store for a tiny amount of money.
We will run this country properly. There is so much money to be saved.
We’re reducing taxes but at the same time if I win, if I become President, we will be able to cut so much money and have a better country.
We won’t be losing anything other than we’ll be balancing budgets and getting them where they should be.
So, this is a plan that’s simple, that’s a major reduction. I think people are going to be very happy. We’ve already had some very good reviews.
I did the plan with some of the leading scholars and economists and tax experts that there are in this country. They love it; they say "Why hasn’t this been done before?"
And this is my wheelhouse. That’s what I do well.
The economy is what I do well. Whenever they do polls, I always come out way above everybody else on the economy and on leadership, by the way, but I won’t say that.
So, if anybody has thank you. That’s amazing. That’s some of the press was actually clapping. I’ve never saw – I don’t think I’ve ever seen that before.
All right. Why don’t we take some questions from the press?
No, I’m not going to do that yet but we have their approval. But we have some of the top people in the country worked on this.
Well, we’re looking at a 3% but we think it can be 5%, it could even be 6%. We’re going to have growth that will be tremendous.
And by the way, if we have more than 3%, these numbers are really spectacular.
And one of the things that they don’t take into account in any big league fashion is the cutting. There is so much waste in government and I believe when I get in there I’ll be able to cut without losing anything to cut tremendous amounts off of the – and we’re not even showing anything for that.
So, they’re very conservative numbers.
My taxes will – first of all, I’ll have a much simpler tax statement. It will be much simpler.
When I do my return, it will be much – my return go up to the ceiling and beyond, which is ridiculous. And you spend millions of dollars at a high level on lawyers, accountants, and everything else.
We want to simplify them to a tremendous level.
The bracket of 25% – the big difference is many of the loopholes and many of the deductions which are all – they’ve been there for years – are antiquated in many cases.
Or are put there because a lot of the people that get these deductions are contributed to Hillary, they’re contributing to Bush. They’re contributing to every candidate but Trump. Because I’m not taking any money. I’m self-funding. And these people want these deductions.
There will be people – we’re reducing taxes. But believe me, there will be people in the very upper eschelons that won’t be thrilled with this.
We’re taking away deductions and that’s one of the reasons we’re able to lower it.
 This is actually a tax reduction. A big tax reduction, including for the upper income.
I believe that the economy will do so well that even though they won’t be getting certain deductions which aren’t fair for them to be getting that they’ll end up doing better.
I just think this is a common sense approach. You know, we could say supply side. You could say there’s 15 different names given out for different kinds of deductions or increases. I don’t think it’s supply side or anything else.
I think this is a common sense, well thought out tax proposal that’s going to trigger the economy, going to make everybody go back and really want to work.
It’s going to create tremendous numbers of jobs.
One of the other things that I’m coupling this with is if I become President, I’m going to renegotiate our trade deals. Because our trade deals are not sustainable by this country. Not sustainable.
We cannot continue to let our jobs go to all of the different countries. There’s not a country that we negotiate with that doesn’t make a better deal. Everybody.
We lose money with everything.
I’m also going to renegotiate some of our military costs. Because we protect South Korea, we protect Germany, we protect some of the wealthiest countries in the world – Saudi Arabia – we protect everybody. We protect everybody.
And we don’t get reimbursement. We lose on everything. We lose on everything.
So, we’re going to negotiate and renegotiate trade deals, military deals, many other deals that’s going to get the costs down for running our country very significantly. I’m not showing a big number in that. But I believe that if I become President, those numbers are going to be massive.
As an example, Saudi Arabia. They make $1 billion a day. We protect them.
So we need help.
We’re losing a tremendous amount of money on a yearly basis and we owe $19 trillion.
I used to say $18 trillion for the last 6, 7 months; now it’s $19 trillion and it’s only going up.
Well, no, look. Senator Rubio is a lightweight. We understand that. He wouldn’t be able to do this. He wouldn’t know a trade deal from any other deal and what certain people are trying to do is they’re trying to take – we just went up in the last poll. We went up two points in the last poll, and we continue to go up.
In the NBC poll, I think we went from 26% to 29%. We’re going up very strongly in the polls. They don’t know what to do about it.
I’ve built a great company. You’ll see that in 60 Minutes last night. I built a great company. It’s a phenomenal company with very little debt, tremendous cash flow.
I’m funding my own campaign.
Guys like Rubio, I mean, he desperately needs money. Ask the car dealer in Florida. Ask the people that support him.
And a guy like Rubio and others – I don’t want to single him out; you’re singling him out – but they’re largely controlled by their donors, the special interests, and frankly more than anybody else, the lobbyists.
I’ve turned down millions of millions of dollars from lobbyists and special interests because it’s not the right thing. It’s just not right. And that seems to be resonating very strongly.
I negotiate. It’s true. I get bills from people; I’ll negotiate. Oh, is that a bad thing? The country should do that.
Yeah, I would. I’d bring that same attitude to the White House. It’s true.
She says I have a habit when you get a bill, you’d call up and you negotiate. To me, that’s a compliment.
No, I want to take that thinking to the White House. I would bet you we could save 20% of our budget. I could even save more. But we could save a tremendous amount.
That has to be the attitude our country has. You can’t spend millions and millions of dollars on doing something that you can do for $2,000.
You know, when you look at costs, we just spent $1 million building a soccer field. Okay? A soccer field for our prisoners that happen to be in Guantanamo. Okay? I don’t like that. What do you need $1 million for? Level out the surface, let them play – if they had to play at all. Okay? What do you need to spend $1 million.
We just spent – it’s a story today. $1 million on a soccer field. How do you spend $1 million doing a soccer field? You have a level piece of land. Throw them a ball if they have to play soccer – if they have to play at all. Why are they playing soccer is my question.
No, it’s too long. You don’t have time. You don’t have time.
No, not at all. We’re lowering taxes, which Republicans love.
And I think one of the reasons I am doing so well in the polls and one of the reasons I’m doing so well when it comes to the economy in all polls is that this is the thinking.
No, we’re lowering taxes very substantially. We’re simplifying. And we’re getting rid of deductions that are actually obselete that certain people want to keep for certain reasons.
So, no, that’s not true.
Well, Putin was interviewed and I was interviewed last night. I thought his interview – I though Charlie Rose did an excellent job. But I thought his was a softer interview.
Scott Pelley interviewed me. I thought Scott was terrific. I mean, it was a tough interview but I thought he was very fair and I thought the piece was very good.
Why is he harder on me than Putin? I would say because Putin is a nicer person than I am.
The worst in 36 years. Well, it’s a good question and you can connect the dots. But I guess it has been probably since ’04. You know, you’re talking about 10, 11, 12 years that people have wanted to bring the money back into the country.
And again it’s called corporate inversion and in a lot of time corporations are moving out and they’re going to other countries, taking jobs.
And now, we have a really big problem because we have serious companies – very large, very prestigious companies as you know – obviously you know something about business. But we have major companies looking to move out of the United States.
You know, it used to be they’d move from New York to Florida. They’d move from New Jersey to Texas. Or whatever.
Now, they’re talking about moving from the United States to Ireland and to England and to other places, to Spain where they get treated differently and frankly better.
And they’re doing that for a number of reasons but one of the reasons – one of the big reasons – as you know is taxes. One of the other reasons is to get all of this cash that they’ve built up and they can’t get back into our country.
And when this money comes back into our country that everybody wants, it’s going to be put to work in our country, largely. It can go other places. But largely.
And I think it will be an amazing boon.
Now, here’s the other thing. They think it’s $2.5 trillion. I think it’s much more than that.
I actually think it’s going to be more money than that. And boy if it is, we have hit pay dirt.
Well, you know when you end the repatriation, when you get the money coming back in beyond, tremendous things happen.
Well, I’ll be announcing that in the not too distant future.
But I will tell you. I’ve been honest. I’m the only one that’s honest about this thing.
I watched Romney. I watched all – "Oh, I pay so much tax. I pay so much tax." I watched all politicians and they say "I pay – "
I fight like hell to pay as little as possible. Can I say that? I’m not a politician.
I fight like hell always because it’s an expense.
And you know, I feel – I fight. I have the best lawyers and the best accountants and I fight. And I pay. But it’s an expense.
And frankly, I would feel differently if this country was spending the money wisely instead of throwing it out the drain.
Our country spends our money so stupidly and I will tell you that I could speak for myself I pay a lot of tax but I fight like hell to make it as low as possible. But I would feel a lot differently if our leadership was such that I respected the decisions.
All you have to do is look at a list of the things that our government is spending money on right now and you don’t feel so good about our country.
I’ll tell you what in terms of income inequality, we’re going to create a lot of jobs.
You know, right now, we have a false – 5.4%, 5.3%, 5.6% – every month it’s different.
It’s such a phony number. Because when people look and look and look and then they give up looking for a job, they’re taken off the roll. So the number isn’t reflective.
I’ve seen numbers of 24%. I actually saw a number of 42% unemployment. 42%.
And it could be because when you’re looking for a job and you go around and you look and you look and you find it, you want to work and you want to take care of your family and then you can’t get the job – you know what I’m talking about because you’re shaking your head – and you can’t get the job, essentially for statistically purposes you are considered employed.
So then I read every time it comes out I hear 5.3% unemployment. That is the biggest joke there is in this country.
That number is so false.
And you know, people ask "How come Trump is doing so well? And Carson and others? How come they’re doing -?" You know why they’re doing well? Because people are tired of political speak. They’re tired of that.
And the worst example of it – one of the worst example of it – is the phony unemployment rate.
The unemployment rate is probably 20%. But I will tell you you have some great economists that will tell you it’s 30%, 32%. And the highest I’ve heard so far is 42%.
There’s anger out there at the job picture.
Now, one of the things – with that being said, China, Japan, Mexico, Brazil, these countries are all taking our jobs like we’re a bunch of babies.
That will stop. People will treat us fairly if I become President.
We’re losing our jobs. We’re losing our base. We’re losing our manufacturing.
All of that will stop.
Well, this is number one a simplification. Number two, what I’m really doing is the big picture because corporations now are going to start having an incentive to create jobs. They’re going to have an incentive also to stay in this country.
Well, if they provide bigger dividends, people are going to have more money to spend. So that’s not so bad either.
If a corporation gives out a bigger dividend, that’s great. Mr. Jones gets a bigger dividend, he’s going to have more money to spend in the economy. So that’s good.
I know nothing about that.
No, I’m not a populist. No, I’m not. I’m a man of great common sense. I’m a man that’s built a tremendous company with the best locations in real estate, the best everything. You’re here at one of them. I have many of these.
I’ve done a great job. I’ve employed tens of thousands of people. I employ now thousands and thousands of people. I’ve done a good job.
But I wouldn’t say populist at all. I would say I’m a man of common sense.
I’m cutting taxes. I’m going to create a lot of jobs. I’m going to get rid of a tremendous amount of waste.
And I’ll tell you what. The waste that I get rid of – the waste that I get rid of – is going to have a huge impact and I’m not even putting that in my numbers so I think it’s going to be terrific.
Yes, the motor industry. That’s a beautiful way of describing it – the motor industry.
Where are you from? England? I love them. Oh, what a beautiful accent.
No, I want to get the industry – we call it the automobile industry.
But I want to get the automobile industry to build factories here.
As you know, Ford is building $2.5 billion factory in Mexico.
Mexico also took a big plant out of Tennessee and Tennessee thought they were going to get it and they didn’t.
I want the motor companies, as you would say, or the automobile companies to build their plants in the United States.
I don’t want Nabisco leaving for Mexico or any place else.
I want these companies not to leave Chicago, not to leave Michigan, not to leave New Hampshire and Iowa and South Carolina and all of these places where they’re leaving and they’re going to other countries.
I want them to stay here and they will stay here and they’ll be so happy.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. It’s been a great honor. Thank you.
Autism has become an epidemic.
25 years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics. Not even close.
It has gotten totally out of control.
I am totally in favor of vaccines but I want smaller doses over a longer period of time.
Because you take a baby in – and I’ve seen it and I’ve seen it and I had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year period of time, same exact amount. But you take this little beautiful baby and you pump – I mean, it looks just like it’s meant for a horse not for a child.
And we’ve had so many instances – people that work for me just the other day – two years old, two and a half years old, a child – a beautiful child – went to have the vaccine and came back and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic.
I only say – I’m in favor of vaccines. Do them over a longer period of time. Same amount but just in little sections.
And I think you’re going to have – I think you’re going to see a big impact on autism.
Boy, oh, boy. I didn’t expect that. You know, Joe and the group Veterans for a Strong America called and they said "Would you come over and speak?"
I’m here for a certain reason. You know, it’s called tomorrow night. So I got here and they asked a couple of days ago if it would possible to come over and say a few words. An endorsement from your group with so many veterans – hundreds of thousands of veterans – I really appreciate that, Joe. I did not expect that.
I didn’t expect it. I didn’t ask for it.
I will say this: I am with the veterans 100%. They’re our greatest people. They’re being treated terribly.
Not only the number of deaths, which are obviously – that’s what’s going on is incredible.
But as of two weeks ago on Wednesday, the vets had the longest wait in the history of the Veterans Administration. You go in to see a doctor, you wait for days, for days.
And it’s not going to happen. Not going to happen. If I win, believe me, it’s not going to happen.
And one of the things I thought I’d do and I’d stress so strongly – the veterans hospitals – obviously they have problems. They’re not properly run.
And when you have to wait long hours and long days and then in some cases have the doctor say "I’m sorry. I’m going on vacation", believe me, it doesn’t get much worse than that.
So we’re going to create a whole new system. We’re going to take this system apart.
And if they’re not doing the job, the veterans are going to go to private doctors, private hospitals, public hospitals, and we’re going to reimburse those doctors and those hospitals.
And you’re going to get the greatest service of any veterans in any country because you deserve it. And that’s going to be broken down into something that’s going to be very special.
Right now – and you know it – we have illegal immigrants that are treated better by far than our veterans. It’s not going to happen anymore. It’s not going to happen.
So, Joe, I just really appreciate it. So unexpected.
To be here is an honor. They don’t build ships like this anymore, folks. You know? We don’t do them this way anymore.
I actually said what about recommissioning – look at this thing. The largest guns in the world. The most powerful guns. I learned about the Iowa.
By the way, Iowa is a great place for a lot of reasons. You know? We have been treated so well in the state of Iowa. It’s been incredible. Number one on the polls and we love those people. They’re great.
So this is a great ship and that’s a great state.
I just want to say that we’re going to come out with some plans in a very short time.
We’re going to be building up our military. We’re going to make our military so big and so strong and so great.
And it will be so powerful that I don’t think we’re going to ever have to use it. Nobody’s going to mess with us. That I can tell you.
And we’re going to have a President who’s respected by Putin, who’s respected by Iran.
You know, let’s talk about for two seconds, let’s talk about the Iran deal.
Now, Obama and his people call him the Supreme Leader of Iran. Obama talks about the Supreme Leader. Well, I’m not calling him a Supreme Leader.
But he said the other day that after this rip-off deal is completed, he will never touch, do business with the United States again. "We’re finished with the United States."
They’re taking $150 billion. They’re getting a deal that’s going to go right into nuclear weapons much sooner than you think.
They’re going to self-police – think about that one – they are going to go and self-police.
They’ve got the 24-day – they have 24-day provisions. And by the way, what people don’t understand – the 24-day provision doesn’t start – you know this, right? It doesn’t start for a long time before you even get to it. The clock is ticking. It can take forever. We may never get it there.
It is one of the dumbest deals and one of the weakest contracts I’ve ever seen of any kind.
So, we are going to do things and this country right.
We’re not going to sign deals where we have four prisoners over there and there’s still there and we don’t even ask for them.
One of them is there because he’s a Christian. We have a writer. We have – the whole thing is absolutely insane.
You know, they asked the President, and they asked Secretary of State Kerry who maybe – you know, I’ve been saying Hillary Clinton is the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country. Right? All right. I’ve been saying it. But it’s possible – the world blew up around her. It blew up. Just blew up. The whole world is like a different place.
It’s possible that because of this deal made by Secretary Kerry who has absolutely no clue how to negotiate, it may that he’s going to supersede. And I understand that he may want to run for President. He has no chance like she has no chance.
So we’re going to see what happens.
We have many problems in our country. One of them is immigration.
Now, I took a tremendous hit when I brought up illegal immigration when I announced I was running for President.
And for two weeks, I said – you know, Rush Limbaugh – he’s a great guy – he said "He has suffered more incoming" – meaning the press – "than anybody I’ve seen."
So what happened is you have now found out what illegal immigration is all about and I am so happy that I’m the one that brought it to the fore because believe me, it’s a big problem. It is a big problem.
So you remember for about two weeks, I said, "Boy this is tougher than I thought running for President." And then you found out there’s tremendous crime. There’s tremendous drugs pouring across the border. Tremendous. Beyond. Going to Chicago, going to New York, going to LA, going all over our country.
So the drugs pour in and the money pours out. Not a good deal. We get the drugs, they get the money. The drug cartels are going wild. They cannot believe how stupid our government is.
They are making a fortune. The drugs come in. The money goes out daily. And I saw it because I was on the border. I was there. And we saw it. And everybody sees it everyday.
And we have the kind of people that can do something about it but we have no leadership. None. None whatsoever.
So, we’re going to build a wall and Mexico’s going to pay for the wall, believe me. You know, a lot of politicians have said "Oh, they’re not going to pay". They don’t know anything about – they never read the Art of the Deal, first of all.
So here’s the story. So here’s the story. I said the other day to one of my people "What is the United State’s trade deficit with Mexico, Japan, and China?"
So let’s start with China. Almost $400 billion a year.
Now, if you have a company where you’re losing $400 billion, you’ve got to do something very fast.
We don’t. We’ve been losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year frankly for decades.
Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen anymore.
With Japan where their massive ships floating right here and they drop off the cars, right? They drop off thousands and thousands and thousands of cars – millions of cars – and we sell them beef. We sell them beef.
And they don’t want it because their farmers don’t want our beef. They protest and they send it back. All right?
It’s not going to happen that way anymore.
Now, with Mexico – and I love Mexico. I have many, many people – many, many people from Mexico that work with me and they work for me and they buy my apartments.
Same with China. I have so many people. They pay me millions and millions. What am I supposed to hate China because they gave me millions of dollars to buy an apartment? I don’t think so.
I had the largest bank in the world as a tenant. It’s from China. Bigger than any bank in this country by many times. They’re from China.
The problem that we have is that the leaders of Mexico, Japan, and China and every other country that we do business with, they’re smarter, more cunning, sharper than our leaders.
I love free trade. The concept is great. But you need smart people.
I have the smartest people in this country lined up. I know the smartest.
I have Carl Icahn. I have the best business leaders and they all want to do it. They’re wealthy because they make good deals like me. I make good deals.
You know, it’s a talent. It’s a talent. You can’t be a politician.
Look, I’m fighting some very nice people. Very nice. Even though I’m leading in the polls. But they’re very nice people.
But they’re never going to do anything with these countries. They’re never going to be able to do it. It’s an instinct. It’s something that’s special. They don’t have it. Believe me, they don’t have it.
It’s just going to be more of the same.
So, we are going to make our country so great.
We are going to make it strong. We are going to make it powerful.
We’re going to rebuild the military. We’re going to make it so strong.
We are going to take care of our veterans.
And in the end, in the end, I want you people to look around and look at each other because this is going to be a special day.
The other week – two weeks ago in Mobile, Alabama, 31,000 people showed up in a rainy rough day. 31,000 people came to see us speak and we’re talking about making America great again.
Last night in Dallas at the American Airlines Center, 20,000 people – the basketball arena of the Mavericks. 20,000 people showed up and I want to tell you, it was a love fest. Everybody – think of it, 20,000 people – there wasn’t one heckler in the whole room. I kept saying, "There’s got to be one."
There was a word – two words that used to be used a lot called "silent majority". They stopped using them.
The silent majority, believe me, is back and I think we can use it somewhat different.
I don’t think we have to call it a silent majority anymore because they’re not silent. People are not silent.
They’re disgusted with our incompetent politicians.
They’re disgusted with the people that are giving our country away.
They’re disgusted when they tell the border patrol agents who are good people and can do the job.
They’re disgusted when they’re allowed people to just walk right in front of them and they’re standing there helpless and people just pour into the country.
They’re disgusted when a woman who’s nine months pregnant, walks across the border, has a baby, and you have to take care of that baby for the next 85 years.
They’re disgusted by what’s happening to our country.
And you’re going to look around and you’re going to remember who the people are that are here because we’re doing something special. This is a movement. We’re going to make our country great again.
Believe me, we will make our country great again.
I love you all. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you all for being here. This is some turnout. My great honor.
The Chairman just left as you probably know and he’s been extremely fair. The RNC has been absolutely terrific over the last two month period.
And as you know, that’s what I’ve wanted. I wanted fairness.
I don’t have to be treated any differently than anybody else. I just wanted fairness from the Republican Party.
We’re leading in every single poll. A new poll came out today where we’re over 30%. We’ve actually hit numbers as high as 35% and 40%.
And frankly, I’ve felt that the absolute best way to win and to beat the Democrats and very easily I think beat the Democrats no matter who it may be whether it’s Hillary or anybody else and I think maybe Hillary is going to have a very hard time frankly with what’s happening getting to the starting gate, the best way for the Republicans to win is if I win the nomination and go directly against whoever they happen to put up.
And for that reason, I have signed the pledge.
So I will be totally pledging my allegiance to the Republican Party and the conservative principles for which it stands and we will go out and we will fight hard and we will win. We will win.
And most importantly, we will make our country great again because that’s what it’s all about. We have to make our country great again.
This is a self-funded campaign. We have our heart in it. We have our soul in it. I don’t need money and I don’t want money.
And this is going to be a campaign like I think no other.
I’m not controlled by lobbyists. I’m not controlled by anybody. I’m controlled by the people of the country in order to make our country great again.
Yeah, I got nothing. I really got nothing.
The question was what did I get for signing the pledge? Absolutely nothing. Other than the assurance that I would be treated fairly. And I’ve seen that over the last two months. They really have been very fair.
No, I have no intention of changing my mind.
Well, I think the big thing that’s changed is – and it’s been obvious to all – number one, after I announced, we went up like a rocket ship.
Nobody thought I was going to run and they said "Oh, he won’t run and he won’t put in his papers. And he wouldn’t do all of this."
I did that. The papers in terms of the company turned out to be spectacular. It’s a great company. I built a great company. And all of the other papers have turned out to be very well received.
And I think the thing that’s changed is the fact that I went to number one place very quickly after I signed and after I in this building notified everybody that I’d be running for President.
So I think the biggest thing is that I went early to number one and the RNC has treated me with great respect.
So that was very important.
No, I see no circumstances under which I would tear up that pledge.
Well, you don’t have to be met when you’re at 2%. It’s one of those things. That’s the way life works. And I like Gov. Christie, by the way.
Well, the Chairman asked if he could come up. You saw him. He was here a little while ago. And I was greatly honored that he did come up frankly.
Well, I think that when you get right down to it, we’re a nation that speaks English and I think that while we’re in this nation, we should be speaking English. And that’s how assimilation takes. And that’s how – I mean, whether people like it or not that’s how we assimilate and that’s how we go on to that next phase and that next stage.
And that’s how people that don’t speak – and I’m not just talking about Spanish; I’m talking about from various parts of the world – that’s how they will become successful and do great.
So I think it’s more appropriate to be speaking English.
Well, one of the things I want to do and I feel very strongly it’s a country based on borders and our country is based on laws.
And when people come into the country illegally, we should not allow that.
And this is not from South America. This is not from Mexico. This is from all over the world.
When people come illegally, we cannot allow that.
And I want people to come legally. I want very much to take care of our border because our southern border is a total mess. That’s been proven.
And interestingly, a couple of months ago when I announced, I made some very strong statements about the crime and the problems that were happening and I’ve been proven right.
And many of the people in this audience actually have apologized to me, which I very much appreciate. Of course, they haven’t done it publicly but these are minor details but someday they will.
The fact is that we are a nation that wants and needs borders. We’re a nation that wants and needs and is based on laws.
And we will make sure that that takes place.
With that being said, I want people to come into our country legally. I want to have a big, fat beautiful open door. I want people of great talent to come in for Silicon Valley. I want engineers. I want physicists. I want people with great talent to come into the United States.
When people graduate from college, you can be number one in your class at Harvard or number one at Yale or the Wharton School of Finance or Princeton or Stanford. And immediately if you’re not a citizen of the United States, you get thrown out of the country. We want those people to stay.
We want people of great talent to be in the United States to work here and ultimately to become a citizen.
I don’t know enough about it to comment on it. Was she jailed? I really don’t know much about it.
That’s absolutely false. I win at golf. I win at golf. That I can tell you.
Well, I understand how the system works maybe better than anybody. I understand the political system and I understand also very much a system for coming in for illegal immigrants.
Don’t forget if I didn’t bring up the subject of illegal immigration, you wouldn’t be asking the question. Nobody would be even talking about immigration. And immigration and in particular illegal immigration has become a very big factor.
Now, a lot of bad things have happened with respect to crime since I brought it up.
But if I didn’t bring it up, immigration would not even be a subject that we’re talking about and it happens to be a very important subject.
I have to say this: It can also be a very positive subject because I believe so strongly in immigration and I just – we have to stop illegal immigration and we have to look forward to great immigration done in a legal manner.
But if I didn’t bring it up, nobody would be talking about it.
Well, there is gridlock in Congress right now and that’s because there’s no leadership at the top. You have to be able to lead. You have to be able to get people into your office. You have to get people go to them. Any way you want to do it. But you have to be able to lead. There is no leadership at the top.
Signing executive orders it not the way our country was supposed to be run.
I don’t want to talk about that. It’s inappropriate.
Tom Brady? Well, Tom Brady is a very good friend of mine. He’s a great guy.
For those of you who don’t know him, he’s a very honorable and an honest guy and a truly great athlete. He is really a very good friend of mine.
And I just spoke to him a little while ago. He’s so thrilled and so happy.
Tom Brady – I think what they’ve done is terrible. And he’s been exonerated as I understand it because I just heard about it. But I’m very happy for Tom.
As far as the Commissioner is concerned, they’re having a rough year. Let’s face it. They’re having a very rough year.
Well, in Europe they have tremendous problems with people going in and storming. And it’s a huge humanitarian problem.
And I just say this. This United States has tremendous problems of their own. We have infrastructure that we have to fix. We have bridges and roads and tunnels and everything is falling apart. Our nation’s in such trouble.
That’s why being a builder and a great builder and a very successful builder I think will greatly help.
But we have so many of our own problems including the border, including the wall, which we will get built, including all of the things we have – health care, which is a mess.
You know, if you look at Obamacare, the premiums have gone up 45%, 50%, 55%. People are saying "This is turning out to be a disaster." Deductibles are through the roof. The deductibles on Obamacare it’s through the roof.
So we have a lot of problems. We have to take care of our vets. We have to build up our military.
Just the other day, Gen. Ordierno said that the Army is in the worst shape in its history in terms of preparedness.
Now, for them to be in bad shape with the way we are and with the world hating us, and you look at Hillary Clinton – and I’ve said she’s the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country.
Now, in all fairness, because of the agreement that’s about to be finalized with Iran, John Kerry may very well take her place.
I think that agreement is a disaster for this country, for Israel, for the Middle East. It’s going to lead to nuclear proliferation – the 24-day clause – everything about it. We don’t even get our prisoners back. You say who negotiates a thing like that?
That won’t happen, I can guarantee you, with a President Trump.
You’ll see it later. Yeah. They don’t want to hear it.
I would say very simply I just want to be treated like everybody else.
You see, I was always the fair hair boy. I was a big contributor. Nobody knows the system. But I was on the other side. And I was the elite. I was the fair hair person.
Once I ran, all of a sudden I was a little bit of an outsider. I became an outsider because I was running. Because I wasn’t supposed to run.
I’m this businessman that people have given me great credit as being a great businessman. But I’m not supposed to be running for office.
The fact is that our country is being killed on trade by China, by Japan, by Mexico both at the border and on trade.
And I’m not knocking those countries. Their leaders are much, much smarter than our leaders. They are absolutely killing us.
China – taking our jobs, taking our money, taking our base. And think of this: We owe China $1.4 trillion and we’re paying them interest.
We owe Japan with all of the cars coming in the same amount – $1.4 trillion.
Now, that’s like a magic act. They send the cars in, they take our jobs, they do everything, and we owe them money. That’s not going to happen with me.
Well, Jeb Bush is a very nice man. I’ll be honest. I think he’s a very nice person. I think he’s a very low energy person and I don’t think that’s what the country needs.
I hear he’s going to spend a lot of money on negative ads on me.
And honestly, look, he’s getting the money from special interests. He’s getting the money from lobbyists and his donors. And they’re making him do it because he’s crashing in the polls.
So I don’t know what’s going to happen if he spends $20 million or $25 million on negative ads – I don’t know. I know that my life will continue. I just don’t know. I mean nobody’s ever spent money on ads against me. But he probably has to do that although it would not be the way I’ve done.
You know, one of the things I’m most honored about is that so far everybody that’s attacked me has gone down the tubes.
You have Lindsey Graham attacked me. He was at 3%. Now he’s at zero.
You have Perry attacked me. Now he’s getting out of the race. He was at 4% or 5%. Now he’s getting out of the race. He was at zero.
Everybody – Rand Paul attacked me. I see the last poll – the Monmouth poll that just came out today where I’m leading by double figures and Rand Paul is down to less than 2% and he attacked me.
Now, Jeb Bush also just went down in the Monmouth poll very big.
So I don’t know. Are they going to spend – he’s going to spend lobbyist money and special interest money. Remember this – they have total control over Jeb and Hillary and everybody else that takes that money.
Nobody knows the system better than me. They have total control.
You understand it very well because you’ve been covering it for a long time. Those people that are putting up those millions of dollars have total control over your candidate.
I will tell you this: Nobody’s putting up millions of dollars for me. I’m putting up my own money.
In fact, I feel a little bit foolish. People are offering me millions and millions of dollars. You know, when you’re in first place, you can collect so much money and I keep turning them down. I feel like – am I a fool? I feel very foolish.
And when I was in Iowa last week, I said "What do you think? Can I take – " One man offered me – a big lobbyist – offered $5 million for my campaign. I said to the crowd in Iowa – great crowd, 4,000 people – I said "Can I take it? And would you believe I’m not going to do anything? I promise you. I swear to you I won’t do anything." And they all stood up and said "No, no, don’t take it."
The fact is I’m the only self-funder. I’m putting up my own money.
I know there have been some super PACs – 5 or 6 super PACs – where people are forming super PACs for Trump. I have nothing to do with them. As you know, you’re not allowed to have anything to do with them. So I don’t know what they’re going to do.
Hopefully, if they’re going to do something it’s going to be nice. But I don’t know anything about them.
But just in a nutshell, I’m funding my own campaign. Nobody else’s.
When people advertise – and I hope the voters can see this. Every negative ad they see about me is paid for by lobbyists and special interests. So just remember that.
Our country could be doing much better. We have deficits that are enormous. We have all bad trade agreements. We have an Army that the heads said is not prepared. We have a military that needs help and especially in these times.
We have nuclear weapons that you look at 60 Minutes they don’t even work. Okay? If anybody saw that report. The phones don’t work. They’re 40 years old. They have wires that are no good.
Nothing works. Our country doesn’t work.
Everybody wins except us. We need victories in this country. We don’t have victories any more.
Our country will be great again, but right now our country has major problems.
I think it’s great that she’s in the debate. I was in favor of her being – I think she should be in the debate.
I don’t like the fact that there are 11 people now as I understand it. They’re not getting rid of Rand Paul or somebody. But I think they should because there’s too many people.
Because when you have 11, you’re not getting to hear me and you’re not getting to hear other people talking and I think that’s too bad. I think 11 is a lot of people.
But I was very happy that she got into the debate because frankly she deserves to be in the debate.
I think maybe he’s inclined not to get in the race. I think it’s going to depend on what happens with Hillary Clinton.
A lot of people think that she will not be able to make it legally from a criminal standpoint to the starting gate. I don’t know that to be true.
But I think it depends on what happens with her.
I think if she gets out, he will get in. I think if she stays in, he might not.
Who knows?
Oh, he’s not supposed to be here because he was here, he was up in my office and he got the pledge and we’re very happy about that. We don’t want anything – and I told him. I said, "I don’t know if it’s appropriate Reince for you to be here because I don’t want anything – " You know, you guys will end up saying he’s endorsing Trump.
So I suggested frankly that I’m fine with him not being here because I don’t want anybody to think he’s endorsing.
As far as Jeb is concerned, I watched him this morning on television and it’s a little bit sad.
Don’t forget. He was supposed to win. And he just doesn’t have the energy.
But what he does have is a lot of money that was given to him again by special interests, donors, and lobbyists.
And I just hope that if he spends money on ads, which he may not – if I were him, I’d spend money on positive ads about himself. Because if he knocks me, assuming people leave and maybe they’re at a point where they’re not going to leave because they’re fed up with what’s happening in this country, but I think they’re going to go to people other than Jeb.
I don’t know. Right now, I’m interested in jobs. One thing – one of the groups, it was actually CNN. I shouldn’t say that. But they did a very massive poll and I came out number one in leadership, number one on the economy, number one in jobs producing.
And I don’t mean by number one. I mean like number one by many, many times. And I am so intent on putting people back to work in this country.
You know, we have 93 million people that are not in the workforce right now. 93 million.
When they give up looking for a job, they take them off of the stats. They take them off the statistics. We have 93 million people.
We have 50 million people between poverty levels and welfare and all.
Our country can be great again. We have to put people back to work.
Would I bring my children into the administration? I will tell you they are very capable. The answer is probably not. But having them in would be very good. They’re very, very capable children.
The second part I won’t bother asking you. It’s no longer pertinent.
Kanye West? You know what? I’ll never say bad about him. You know why? Because he loves Trump. He loves Trump. He goes around saying "Trump is my all-time hero." He says it to everybody.
So, Kanye West – I love him. Now, maybe in a few years I’ll have to run against him. I don’t know. So I’ll take that back.
But he’s been so nice to me.
You people have sort of seen because I’ve been a counter-puncher. I only hit people when they hit me. Only. And Kanye West has been so great. I would never say bad about him because he says such nice things about me.
No, my supporters are really supporting me because I’m very competent, because they know that I’m not going to let China rip us off. I’m not going to let Japan rip us off.
Japan is devaluing their yen. Very hard for Caterpillar and other companies to compete against Komatsu – their big tractor maker – and others. We’re not going to let this happen anymore.
They do – you talk about a trade imbalance. They have in Japan the biggest ships you’ve ever seen pouring cars into Los Angeles, pouring them in. I’ve never seen anything like it. We send them beef and they don’t even want it.
It’s going to end and they’re going to like us.
In this building, I have the largest bank in the world. Right up these elevators. It’s a bank from China. By far the biggest bank in the world.
I get along great with China. I get along great with Japan. I get along great with Mexico.
I love the people. I love the people of Mexico. I love the Hispanics. I have thousands of Hispanics right now working for me. Over the years, I have employed tens of thousands of Hispanics – many from Mexico. I have unbelievably great relationships.
And in the package that we gave you, you’ll see there’s a poll and I’m number one with Hispanics. You saw that. Number one with Hispanics.
So, look, for our country to be great, we have to be able to make great deals. We’re going to be great to the vets. We’re going to be terrific. Our military is going to be unbelievable.
All of these things – we’re going to get rid of Obamacare and come up with something that’s much better and much less expensive. We’re going to get rid of it. We’re going to repeal it. It’s going to be out. Should have been out a long time ago. Should have never happened.
But we are going to take care of our country and we are going to bring back jobs and we’re going to bring back wealth to the United States so we can afford to save Social Security, which I’ll save without cuts, so that we can afford to do the kind of things that we have to do to make America great again.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. And here is your pledge.
I’m going to tell you a story about Nashville. You’re not even going to believe it. But it’s a very personal story. It’s a very special place to me for a very special reason.
But maybe more importantly, we have an incredible woman with us. She’s 92 years old. We don’t talk about age but she’s 92. And she looks magnificent. And her name is Beada and she’s become very famous. You know who Beada is, right?
Beada, where are you Beada? Look at her. So beautiful.
So, she just registered to vote for the first time in her life. She hasn’t seen anybody that really did it to her. And for the first time in her life she just registered to vote and she’s going to vote for Trump. I think, right?
Thank you, darling. I really appreciate it. You know, she’s become so famous. She’s on television all over the world now.
I have to be nervous even talking to her, you’re so famous. It’s great.
Beada, thank you very much. I really appreciate it and everybody appreciates it.
Because there is a big, big growing like leaps and bounds silent majority out there and we’re going to take this country back and we’re going to make this country so great again and so strong again.
Well, I just want to tell you about Nashville. So, years ago – many years ago – like I hate to say 40 but I won’t say 40 but close to 40, I came to Nashville. Did you ever hear of a company called Genesco? Genesco. Right? So, they were based in Nashville, Tennessee, and they owned the Bonwit Teller department store chain.
And I was a young guy and I came from Brooklyn in Queens, and I wanted to go into Manhattan. And I went into Manhattan and I did the Grand Hyatt Hotel and I did some other things that were good.
But the thing I wanted more than anything was Fifth Avenue between 57th and 56th Street, which is called the Tiffany Location right next to Tiffany. And that’s what I wanted. I wanted that piece of property so badly.
I shouldn’t say that because you’re not supposed to want things like that so badly. God will get angry at me, right?
But I wanted it so badly and the company that owned it was Genesco based in Nashville, Tennessee.
And I came in and I came to Nashville, and I met with the heads of Genesco who were really great people actually. And they were having a lot of difficulties. There were a lot of fighting and a lot of everything.
And I convinced them to sell me the land and the building. And I bought the Bonwit Teller store Fifth Avenue from 57th to 56th street surrounding Tiffany. I bought all the air rights and then ultimately I bought the air rights from Tiffany and I built Trump Tower. And to this day it’s one of the great buildings of the world and it’s one of the great successes.
And I love country music and I went to the Grand Ole Opry while I was here. And I just had such an incredible experience.
And when it came down to speaking because we could speak at a lot of places – you know, when you’re leading in every poll, they sort of want you. When you’re not leading in the polls, like so many of these guys, they don’t want you at all.
And we’ll talk about the polls in a second.
But I had a lot of choices for this morning, and I guess I could have also gone and played golf like the President does all the time, right? But I decided let’s do this.
And I really chose Nashville because the experience is one of my – it’s not my biggest deal but in terms of a deal it’s so important and it’s been such a great – from the day I built it it was a home run. And it all really took place because of Nashville, Tennessee. So, I really – it’s an honor to be with you folks, I can tell you. Real honor.
So, coming over I heard and I watched television – you know, they have all these cameras back there and they’re live. And I guess we’re live on CNN, we’re live on so many different things. It’s always difficult. You know, when you’re always live, you’ve got to change up your speech. You can’t make the speech over and over
The other candidates don’t get covered live ever, except for the debate.
So you know, they had 24 million people on the debate. Now they think when the new numbers come out they’ll be even substantially higher than that.
So I would’ve said they would have had a million or two. So I say they have 24 million people. And I say, well now the second debate, which is on CNN – that was on Fox, maybe I should ask for a lot of money and give the money to charity. Does that make sense? All to charity. All to charity.
When I said that to the writers at Time Magazine, they were nice enough to put me on the cover with actually a nice story. And I said, you know, and I sort of thought I said it off the record but they put it in Time Magazine. So now – maybe should I ask for charity, maybe a nice Nashville charity and American Cancer Society and AIDS research – so many of this – there’s so many good – Alzheimer’s – you know, there’s so many things going on. Maybe I should ask for a lot of money or I’m not showing up.
You know, it’s interesting. So they’ll get 2 million – a million to 2 million people at the debates. You know, they’ve been doing them for a long time. They don’t do great, especially the early Republican debate. Like you know the expression – it draws flies? That’s what it draws.
So this was one of the biggest shows in the history of cable television. I think it might have been the biggest in terms of political in the history of cable television.
Naturally I took full credit for it, which in all fairness I should. I should.
So bottom line I think I might ask for a lot of money for charity but you know. But I did say is it a little hokey if I do that? Maybe it’s not so nice. So what do you think? Should I do it or not? Maybe not. I don’t know.
Here’s the thing. If I don’t do it, CNN just makes a lot of money. I don’t care about CNN. Honestly. No, they’re going to make a lot of money. They just shut off their camera.
They’re actually very nice.
But they’re going to make a lot of money and, you know, it’s something we should consider. So we’ll all consider it together.
But coming over today, I saw that they were having the illegal immigrants come in and somebody mentioned the term the DREAMERs having to do with children and, you know, the dreams of children. And these are people who come over to the country and they’re DREAMERs.
And I said, "What about our children?" Why can’t our children that are in the country, why can’t they be the dreamers? Nobody ever talks about that. No, no, nobody ever talks about that.
You know, we talk about the DREAMERs, we talk about illegal immigrants, who by the way are treated better than our vets.
You know, our vets are incredible. No, no, the illegal immigrants in many casesare treated better than our veterans who are the greatest people we have – our wounded warriors are – these are the greatest people we have.
And another thing nice about being able to make speeches without having to hire some guy to write and keep writing and reading it and put a teleprompter then say, "Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Nashville, it’s wonderful – " you know, is that I can sort of be very current. Okay? I can be very, very current. I can talk about what’s happening.
This morning on the television, they had a whole story about the Veterans Administration and the hospitals how people are waiting on lines to get in. These are our veterans. These are the people that got hurt fighting for us. Maybe we wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for them, to be honest with you. I mean, that’s possible too.
They had a story this morning on Fox, on CNN and a number of them where the veterans are just treated terribly and they showed a desk where there’s supposed to be people behind this desk and they showed this desk and there’s nobody there. And the veterans – I don’t know, probably some of you saw it, the veterans are saying "Where are the people?"
And then, they said, "What happened?" And they said, "This happens all the time." There was not even – nobody even there! And two weeks ago on Wednesday, they had the longest wait in the history – in the history of the Veterans Administration for people wanting to see a doctor.
When I go to a doctor, if I have to wait like 9 minutes, I’m like "Get me – " I’d go crazy. It’s true.
Remember the old days when the doctor used to come to your house? Right?
Beada remembers that. You’d have a cold. The doctor would come over carrying a little bag like this big, beautiful little bag, being at the top. And he’d come over to your house, check you out, fine. Those days don’t exist anymore.
You know, we’re in age of Obamacare where nothing exists.
By the way, we will repeal and replace Obamacare. That I can tell you. That I can tell you.
But, so two weeks ago Wednesday, the longest wait in the history of the Veterans Administration. So that if you go to the doctor’s office, men and women are waiting four days, three days, one was five days.
One case was five days or six days, finally got to see the doctor and the doctor excused himself because he was going on vacation.
Now, you think about that. Can you imagine waiting even a day or a half a day? But these people are waiting four, five days.
So the wait’s now the longest in history and that’s the way we’re treating our greatest people and that’s not right and we’re going to change that. We’re going to change that.
We have right now – and people don’t know this. You know, they see these phony statistics put out by politicians basically. All talk, no action politicians. And I mean on both sides in all fairness.
You know, I’m a Republican. I’m a conservative. But I’m just as angry with the Republicans because they go to Washington, something happens – they become weak. You know, they go to Washington – "We’re going to stop Obamacare. We’re going to stop this. We’re going to do this. We’re going to do that."
Then they walk into these magnificent buildings with those incredible vaulted ceilings, and they go "Oh, I made it, darling, I made it. I vote for you. I vote for you. I vote for Obamacare expansions. I’ll do whatever you want me to do. I’m in Washington."
It’s amazing. Isn’t it amazing? Don’t you agree?
I won’t happen to me, I promise.
And if it does, you can let me know about it. But it won’t. I promise. I promise.
But you know, they show those phony statistics where we’re 5.4% unemployment. 5.4%. The real number. You know, I actually saw a number it could be 42%, okay, believe it or not.
But when you think about it, we have 93 million people that are right now out of the labor force. 93 million people. Of the 93 many of these people want jobs. And they quit looking.
So if you’re looking for a job and you can’t find it and you stop for a while – you know, after a while you sort of like "It’s not happening. It’s not going to happen." I don’t know what they do. But they stop. They are considered statistically employed. Okay?
So, we have 93 million people out of the labor force. I mean, think about it. It’s hard to believe.
We have 50 million people in poverty. These are very new numbers. 50 million people in poverty. Taking our money.
Japan’s taking our money.
Mexico is beating us at the border and on trade. By the way, they’re killing us on trade. You know that.
In fact, you just lost a big car plant to Mexico in Tennessee. Remember? Recently front page Wall Street Journal. A plant that you were going to have
You know this is a movement, folks. This is not like maybe even about me. I don’t want it to be about me. This is about common sense. It’s about doing the right thing.
One of the things that came out in the poll, which was really amazing. Some of the polls, I mean, hey, in Iowa, we’re leading big. Those are great people. We just left Iowa. We had such an amazing evening. 4,000 people in a room that never had that many people and it was a happening.
We just left Alabama, which was unbelievable. 31,000 people in a stadium, and it was supposed to pour. And it did. It poured the minute my speech – that’s like luck. That’s from God. The minute the speech was over, we got it and it poured. We had 31,000 people and it was the most unbelievable.
And the poll just came out in Alabama, leading big in Alabama. Leading big in Iowa. Leading tremendously big in New Hampshire. Great people. Leading really big in New Hampshire.
Leading big in Florida. How about Florida? I have a governor. We have a low energy governor and we have a Senator and we’re leading big in Florida. How do you do that when you have a Senator who’s sitting, you have a governor who’s been there for eight years and Trump – ? I love Florida and I’m there a lot. What could be in Florida? Great weather. You have great weather but Florida has great weather. Big advantage.
But you know, I’m leading big in Florida.
But one of the polls came out because in South Carolina and North Carolina, I’m leading really big.
And in South Carolina, a poll came out and we had a statement that my level of popularity or favorability – you know, I’m the only one that can get a poll and it comes out and these guys in the back with all those red lights on will say – I think I had one poll where I’m 41% – almost 41% – can you imagine? 41%. There’s 17 people. So I’m at 41% with 17 people and they said "Trump’s at 41% but look" – you can’t even hear it. You know, "Trump says bleh". Nobody knows what they just said.
"But there are some people that don’t like him."
It’s unbelievable. I’m the only one that wins these polls and I get negative publicity. No, it’s incredible. The press, ayeyayay.
Well, yesterday, you might have seen me. I was in South Carolina. I made a speech. I had to bring it up.
The New York Times to me is a big deal. You know, I’m from New York. Very liberal paper but that’s okay. You know, not everybody could be like us. But it’s still the New York Times. Right? We have to admit, still the New York Times.
And I’m on the front page a lot on the New York Times, and to be on the front page of the New York Times is a big deal.
But yesterday or two days ago, they had story about me and they had some low level Hispanic commentator. Low level guy. This one didn’t like me.
By the way, I think I’m going to win the Hispanic vote and I think – you know, in Nevada, I won the Hispanic poll. They love me.
I love the Hispanic people. Incredible energy. Incredible people. I love the people. I have so many – I have thousands that work for me and thousands and thousands over the years and have worked for me. They’re great people.
And I said, "I’m going to win". And a lot of the Hispanics that are here legally, they don’t want people coming in illegally. You know it’s true. It’s true.
So there’s this poll that comes out. I think it was in South Carolina where we’re way up and Lindsey at 4% and he’s the Senator. I’m at 30%. So I wrote him a note, "Congratulations. I’m only beating you in your home state by 26 points."
So anyways, who cares.
But they did something that nobody reported. They say, "Oh but do people like Trump?" By the way, this election is not going to be like.
I think I’m a nice person. I love people. I want to help people.
Women’s health issues to me are very important. To Jeb Bush it wasn’t important because he didn’t want to fund them. And then he said, "Oh, I misspoke."
But you know, I really want to be a nice person and I am a nice person.
But I think it’s actually going to be an election based on competence. We’re tired of being like the patsy for everybody. I really do. I think it’s time.
But in the poll, this was the Monmouth poll. Big poll. Highly re – "In another act of political magicTrump managed to flip his favorability rating from negative" – nobody wrote this by the way. Nobody said it. Nobody reported it. "From negative to positive."
This is an exact quote. I have like this photographic memory so I don’t need – but I want to be sure because if I used the word "the" incorrectly, they’ll say, "He didn’t – "
"Favorability rating from negative to positive in one poll during the span of a month". A feat that Monmouth University’s Patrick Murray’s highly respected pollster called "astounding".
Called it "astounding." Nobody else wrote about it.
"That defies any rule in presidential politics that I’ve ever seen," said this highly respected man.
Murray, the director of the polling institute, said he flipped it from 20% to 52% in one month and he said that he’s never seen that before.
And you know what? That’s because people have heard me and they say "You’re such a nice person." No, they want – they say he’s a man – I’ve made a tremendous amount of money. I’ve had tremendous success. And I don’t say that braggingly. That’s the kind of thinking we need in the country. I mean, whatever it is.
But to me, that statement was more important than actually literally killing everybody in the poll. We were much, much higher, more than double everybody.
And we are more than double everybody.
You saw the Quinnipiac just came out and that was an amazing poll. I was the same thing. Much, much higher – double and triple and quadruple many of these candidates.
And the reason is people in this country are smart. They don’t believe a lot of what they see in the media because if you believe these people – you know, why are they doing this? I mean, why are they even saying it?
You’d think that if somebody’s good for the country – and I’ll be great for the country because I’m going to make great deals for our country. We don’t win anymore. Our country doesn’t win anymore.
You’d think somebody – even a liberal person or a Democrat liberal and I mean, really liberal. Somebody who’s going to make the country – why are they knocking it? Why are they knocking? Why do they fight?
You’d think they’d say "Let’s do it. It’s good. It’s good for all of us."
Because our country is in trouble. We owe now $19 trillion. You know, I’ve been saying $18 trillion for a while now. But now it starts to go up quickly.
And by the way, when Obamacare kicks in, which is really kicking in in ’16, you want to see bad deficits? You want to see it go up? You’re going to really see it go up because that has a huge negative impact not only on jobs but on the deficit itself because of the costs. And it’s no good.
Have you noticed – and you’ve seen it yourself – the premiums have gone through the roof? Right? The deductibility – unless you’re close to death, you’re never going to use it. You can’t use it because the deductibility is so high.
But the premiums are up 30%, 40%, and 50% and more. It’s a disaster.
And on top of that, it’s going to cost the country a fortune. So it’s not only costing you a lot of money, it’s going to cost the country a fortune.
So we have to do something about it. And we have to do something importantly about it.
But when I see the people on television and I have to tell you I won’t mention names, some of them when they hear my name – I was talking – we have a great reporter today from the Wall Street Journal with us. Okay? Who came down. And she actually said "Some of them when they hear your name it looks like they’re a boiler waiting to explode." It’s true.
Now, number one, they look bad because they said – do you remember the beginning? Like three, four months ago. They said, "He’s a clown. He’s a clown. Just having fun."
You know, I went to a great school. I did great. I did – everything was great. I came out. I made a fortune, which I want to use the brain for you, but I made a fortune.
I then did a book called The Art of the Deal and many bestsellers. The Art of the Deal being probably the best selling business book of all time. Who has read The Art of the Deal? Yeah, most people. Most everybody.
I jokingly say but I mean it – the Bible tops it by a long way. I say that. I say that. Said it the first time in Iowa. People liked that. But it’s true. Nothing tops the Bible.
But the Art of the Deal – great success. Many books – bestsellers. Many, many bestsellers.
Then I do The Apprentice. I’ve never done television. I do The Apprentice. It’s one of the most successful shows ever on television by the way.
And NBC renewed the Apprentice. You know that. Right? For me.
They came up to my office, the head of Comcast – great guy – I won’t use names. Just say "Steve". No, honestly he’s a great guy. One of the best in the country. He came up with the heads of NBC six months ago and they said, "Donald, we’re renewing The Apprentice. Please, you’ll have to do – you have to do it."
I said, "Honestly, Steve, I’m running for President. I want to make our country great again. I want to make -"
And they didn’t believe me. And I said it four times. They didn’t believe me. Nobody believed that I was going to run. Nobody.
My wife didn’t even believe me, but now she does. But she actually said "If you actually say you’re going to run, you’re going to do great because people like you." She actually said "They’d love you" but I don’t want to brag. But she said, "If you actually run – not you may run, you may not run, who knows?" But she said "If you actually say -"
So the NBC guys come up – terrific people. I mean, honestly I had a great relationship with NBC for 12 years. We had many, many, you know number ones and The Apprentice continues to do great. You know, last season you know how well it did. So they wanted to renew it for many, many shows.
In fact, Mark Burnett called up. You know Mark Burnett. He did Survivor, Apprentice. So Mark Burnett, who’s a great guy, he calls up and he goes "I don’t believe it. You’re not taking a renewal." The word is renewal. I said, "That’s right, Mark. I’m going to run for President." "No, no, no, you have to – nobody doesn’t take a renewal. It’s unheard of in primetime television. Two hours primetime. Are you crazy?" I said, "Mark, I have to do this. I’ve done so well in this country. I have to do it."
We can save our country. We can save our country.
So anyways, the bottom line, NBC renewed it. I told them I’m not doing it, and then they finally believed me when I actually announced.
They don’t like me anymore. It’s amazing. They do not like me.
But it’s too bad. Too bad. Well, thank you.
You know, the funny thing about The Apprentice – there have been 15 copies of The Apprentice. Every single one of them failed. So then a reporter said to me, "Why do you think that is?" I said "Because I’m special." And I was kidding. I was doing it sarcastically – I mean, I sort of meant it to be honest, right? But I was sort of kidding. And they wrote it and I hated the way it looked in writing. You know, it sounds good when you say it but oh it looks so bad in writing.
But so I had a great experience. So here I am – great schools, great brain, great success, built a great company, do The Apprentice, tremendous success. When I did The Apprentice, a certain critic said "It will never be successful" because you know to have a big hit – a really a number one hit – you have to – and you remember that first season it had one of the highest ratings ever. The finale of The Apprentice? Aye! Remember with the great Bill Rancic. Remember how that was? Incredible. But to have a great success, you have to have women.
And I’ll never forget – I saved the article. Right? Like Harry Truman saved it where it said, "Truman loses" and he actually won. Remember? But I saved this article. They said "Trump can never succeed on television because why would women want to watch Donald Trump?" And I said, "Am I so bad? Am I so bad?" Tell me, am I so bad?
And it turned out that women were the biggest base. I mean, those were the ones that likedSo you know I saved those things.
But no matter how you cut it, we can do something so incredible. And honestly, it’s going to be hard. It’s going to be a lot of work. It’s going to be a lot of time. I wouldn’t leave the White House. You know, Obama always leaves the White House. Think of it. You’re elected President. You’re in the White House. Why would you want to leave? I think I’d maybe never leave! How cool is that?
He leaves to go to some place and go fundraisers. I’ll try – I don’t know maybe there’s some rules against it. So maybe I can’t. But I’ll do the fundraisers in the White House.
He and his wife left – I think one was doing the Ellen show another was doing another show right next door in Burbank, California. They left a couple of hours difference. One took Air Force One; one took a beautiful Boeing 757. Two planes. A little bit different timing going to the same location, going to the same airport to do different shows.
And I say why? Why aren’t they flying at least the same plane?
Now, I know what those suckers cost because I happen to have one of them right? So I know what it costs to operate these planesMore importantly, the time and the energy. But I would have said Ellen or I would have said whoever was doing the show, "Let’s do it from the White House." This way, I take a half and hour, I go back, I don’t spend any money of the taxpayers.
And you know the funny thing is that whoever the host is would like it better. "We’re doing our show live from the White House or something".
So we don’t pay any money. We don’t have to fuel up Air Force One, which costs you – do you ever see what it costs to travel in these things? With hundreds and hundreds of security and you’re closing down Burbank, California.
I mean, every time Obama comes to Manhattan to do a fundraiser, which is often, I say "What’s going on? You can’t move. They closed down all the streets. They closed down the city."
And he could do it from like Washington. In fact, he could do it in my new hotel that I’m buying which is only a couple of blocks.
It’s true. I’m building this incredible hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue and it’s going to be incredible. The Old Post Office. And I actually got it from the Obama administration, which is hard to believe. People say "What’s going on? How did Trump get it?"
One of the most heavily sought after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration, which owned it. You know, they’re the ones that made the decision. And I got it and we’re building this phenomenal hotel – Trump International Hotel – right on Pennsylvania Avenue directly between Congress and the White House. Right? It’s going to open just in time – and by the way, listen to this one. We’re under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear that from government? Way under budget.
So we’re actually going to be opening and it’ll be great. But he can use my hotel. I’ll let him use it free. You just come in, use it, go back to the White House. But you don’t have to do that.
But you’d say to yourself why – you know, it’s a mindset. But more importantly even in the travel, we have so many things that we have to do to straighten out our country. You don’t want to waste time. You’ve got to do this. You’ve got to make deals.
I’ve got the greatest deal makers in the world lined up to make deals for us. Carl Icahn – incredible guy. Right? Incredible guy. Great deal maker.
I’ve got some of the greatest deal makers in the world. They’re all calling me too. They said "You didn’t ask me."
I have these guys calling me up – the best in the world.
Now, I know the best. I also know guys that are overrated. I know guys that you haven’t heard of that honestly are phenomenal. I know a lot that you have heard of that aren’t really that good, that are overrated in my opinion.
But they’re the best in the world. And they’re calling me. They don’t want money. They’re worth billions of dollars.
But when I put, let’s say, Carl Icahn and I’ll say "Carl, do me a favor. Handle China." We’re going to make a great deal. No, no, we’re going to make a great deal because that’s what happens. You know, that’s what happens.
So, we’re going to take back our trade.
If you look at China, if you look at Japan – I was in Los Angeles a few weeks ago. I saw ships – the biggest ships I’ve ever seen with cars pouring our, pouring out one after another, made in Japan, very nice. Everything’s nice. Except that it doesn’t help us. When does it help us? When does it help us?
We sell them beef. Beef. And then they don’t want it. Because you know, do you ever see what’s going on over there? We sell the beef and it goes over there and it’s very perishable. So by the time it gets over there, then they turn it over "We don’t want it."
They have cars coming from these massive, massive ships. Massive. And they just pour off the ships.
And I say, "What are we doing? How stupid are we? No tax, no nothing."
And I’m a free trader. I believe in free trade. I have to say. But I have to be fair trade.
When you look at Japan, they take in money up here and we give them money down here. We get nothing by comparison. It’s like peanuts.
Balance it out, fellows. Balance it out. Got to balance it.
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. As you know, China has – it’s probably the greatest theft in the history of the United States what China has done to us. They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken our jobs. They’ve taken everything. They’ve taken so much.
And they’re creating a bubble and you know interestingly we’re so intertwined that now the bubble could take us down if it explodes, which at some point it might.
And we’ve got to be smart.
I made so much money dealing with China. I made hundreds of millions, probably billions, dealing with China.
The Bank of America building in San Francisco – I own a big chunk of that, which nobody knows. Nobody knows.
You know, all these guys come to Forbes. "Oh, Trump’s worth only $5 billion or $4 billion." Or whatever. "He’s only worth $5 billion." It’s like a bankrupt magazineThey don’t even know my numbers. They said, "Well, we haven’t been able to look at about 400 of his companies."
So I filed. Interestingly, they said "He’ll never run. He’ll never run."
Then I announced. Then they said, "Oh, he’ll never file his form whatever." That’s a single page where basically you’re signing your life away and it has to be done within 14 days of the announcement.
I signed my form. And they said, "Well, he’ll never ever put in his financials." And you have like 90 days or something. And they said, "He’ll ask for extensions but he’ll never show because he’s probably not as rich as people think."
But actually I’m much richer and I put in my financials – it’s true. It’s true.
And Forbes and another group said, "No, no, we don’t know what these companies are."
I put in these massive financials, and you know, I was so proud. I might have filed if I wasn’t going to run. I wanted to show people. I wanted to brag. It’s such a great company I’ve built.
So they said, "He’ll never put in his financials." I put in the financials. And everybody – they’re much bigger. It’s a much bigger – you know, very little debt, tremendous value. And really great assets. Iconic assets. You know, iconic. Doral, Turnberry in Scotland. I mean, I have some of the greatest real estates in the world. And I’m very proud of it.
But they say, "He’ll never file. He’ll never file."
Then they see all these companies. And you know, they have boxes. And because it wasn’t really meant for somebody like me, and they have these little boxes. They say, "Is it worth or does he make $1 million, from $1 million to $5 million, from $5 million to $10 million, from $10 million to $20 million?" The last box is $50 million or more. $50 million or more.
So like I have a lot of buildings that are worth much more than that. I have a lot of assets that are worth much more than that.
So it says "$50 million or more". So I checked many of them. I don’t know how many. I think there’s 23 of them. Can you believe it? So I checked like, I don’t know, I think it’s 23. I could be wrong. Oh, they’ll kill me if I’m wrong. But I’m not sure. But I think it’s like 23 boxes. $50 million or more.
So you know when some of these guys do to try and always marginalize you? They added up 23 50s. Now, some of the 50s are worth a billion. Some of them are worth more than a billion.
So it says "$50 million or more", I go 50. So they’ll take $50 million for a building that might be worth a billion and honestly much more.
And they add them up and they say "Well, he’s worth $2.9 billion." It’s really – this is the press. And they have no clue. Those statements aren’t really meant for me – it’s not meant for a guy like me.
But with all of that the statements were so good. They’re so good. They’re so good.
And you know, one of the things I’m doing and last night was incredible. We had an amazing event in Massachusetts. Right? Oh, look at this, we have a wit- what the hell are you doing in Nashville? What are you doing?
Anyway, so here I am. I spent millions of dollars during the course on jet fuel. Okay? Like a lot of money on jets.
But somebody puts up a sign $100 to go to this thing. I didn’t know who did it. But somebody puts up a sign.
So all over the place, I’m spending millions of dollars. I’m turning down millions. I don’t want your money. I don’t want your money.
Somebody puts a sign up talking about $100 contribution, which you didn’t have to make. But they put it up. It’s all over CNN. "Trump is asking for $100."
I fly my plane some place it costs me a fortune. The fuel. The $100. The money that I raised last night, which says it all it goes towards paying off like the expense or something. The guy that had it is a great guy – Ernie. A great guy. Really successful guy. You know him, right? Ernie. He’ll sell you a car any day of the week, right?
And you know the guy is – like 2,000 people showed up. Let him get a little deferment of the roast beef or whatever the hell they’re serving.
So they put up a sign. I don’t want the money. I might like $4 or $5 million. That’s hard to turn down. But the hundred dollars times some people and we let the vets there, we let most of the people I think came in free. And I end up with this big story – "Trump accepting contributions".
I can’t believe it. I got so angry at my people. Because somebody put up a sign saying $100. And honestly, first of all, it’s like peanuts. It doesn’t mean anything. But they used to it to try and marginalize. They always do. They always do.
The bottom line is I am self-funding my campaign. I’m self-funding. I don’t want to have anybody giving. I don’t need money. Now, with that being said, the small money comes in and it’s not a lot of money but it’s great money. Like Beada might send me some money. Beada will send me some money.
But a woman sent me $7 with a beautiful letter from Georgia. Another person sent me $12. Small money. And some sent me $1,000. But it doesn’t amount to a lot. But that I do like coming in because they invest in the campaign.
How do I take the $7 check, right, and send it back to the person who sent it to me from Georgia? "Dear So and So, I’m sorry I don’t really want your money." How do you write a letter like that?
I want them to invest in it. You know, but they’re not going to tell me not to do this or not to do that for China because they are lobbyists for China and they gave me $5 million.
I had a big lobbyist asked me to have – he wanted to give me $5 million for my campaign. I turned him down. I turned him down.
And then I see this story on CNN last night. It was disgusting. That look there’s a sign – $100! Somebody does a sign. It actually was a beautiful sign if you want to know the truth. It was so beautiful. It was beautifully done. And they’re doing this big thing about all day long last night about – I said we had this incredible event and they destroyed it by trying to marginalize. And that’s the press. That’s the media.
Yeah, the criminal media. I mean, there’s truth to it. No, because a lot of times they know it’s wrong.
But I just want to tell you so important to me and last night it was such an incredible event. It had to be a record for a house. The guy got a beautiful house, got a big lawn, put up a tent. But we had 2,000 people. It had to be a record.
The spirit in that group, the spirit in Alabama, the spirit was so incredible. The spirit in our last meeting in Iowa. Don’t forget.
When I went to Iowa and you know what I love? I’m leading with Tea Party. Big. I love Tea Party. I love the Tea Party. Tea Party people, stand up and take a bow. You have not been treated fairly. No, you haven’t been treated fairly.
You have not been treated fairly.
You know, people talk about the Tea Party and you talk about marginalizing, at least I have a microphone where I can fight back. You people don’t.
The Tea Party people are incredible people. These are people that work hard and they love the country and then they just get beat up all the time by the media. It’s disgusting.
And you will be surprised how big you are. You don’t know how big you are. You don’t know the power that you have. I mean it. You don’t know the power that you have.
The Tea Party and you can call it anything that you want. I don’t care about names. But the Tea Party has tremendous power.
I talked silent majority. But the silent majority is more than Tea Party. It’s Democrats. It’s poor people. It’s rich people. It’s everybody. It’s evangelicals.
One of the things that made me so happy – I’m a protestant. I’m a presbyterian. Right? – is that I had a recent poll and they did a beautiful – like these polls are great. You know, guys like Jeb Bush and Hillary, they hire pollsters. They pay them hundreds of thousands of dollars. What do you have to do that for? Every week they come out with a new poll. Right?
Hey, I’m rich. I could hire a hundred poll. I don’t want to waste money. You know, why should I pay?
I know in one caselike $150,000 a month. And you know, then they’re arrogant guys. They think they’re hot stuff and they tell the candidates what to say. "You’ve got to say this. You’ve got to be politically correct."
No way. I don’t have time to be political. No, it’s true. It’s true.
I don’t have time to be political. You know, it takes a lot of time to be politically correct.
You saw the anchor baby thing. Did you see that with where I’m on? And somebody fromit’s the same network – CNN again – he said, "You know the name anchor baby is very insulting?" I said, "What would you call it?" And he gave me like nine words. "A baby of illegal immigrant who was brought to the country to this and that." I said, "How can I say that? It’s too long."
It’s anchor baby
And then Bush – Jeb. Jeb Bush gets caught because he is such a nice person. Honestly.
If you want a nice person, honestly you should vote for Jeb. The country is going to go to hell but we won’t talk of that. No, no, but if you want a nice person.
So Jeb has a memo that he signed of basically a politically correct memo. You know, don’t say this, don’t say that. All these things. Pages of stuff.
But one of the things – "Never use the term ‘anchor baby’."
So all of a sudden, he’s using the term anchor baby just last week.
And with me, when I use it nobody criticizes me. They expect me. They gave up. Okay?
With him, they killed him. They just killed him. It didn’t stop.
And then he blamed it on the Asians. He said, you know – did you see that? And then the New York Times did an editorial "How dare you attack the Asians?"
So he wanted to steer away from the Hispanics. He said, "Well, you know, the Asians come in and they also have anchor babies." And now the Asians all hate him. It’s true.
But the Asians love me and I love them. I love them.
So he has a memo and he signs the memo and it says – a couple of years ago – "Don’t use this term", and now he’s using it because he has to.
Because baby – you know, think of it. Think of it. I want to build a wall. Okay? So easy. So easy. When this clown – Jose Reyes or whatever the hell his name – no, he’s a baseball player. Ramos. Actually Jose Reyes is a baseball player. He’s a nice baseball player. But when Ramos got up the other day screaming and ranting and going crazy and I had all these reporters. Actually, the reporters were mostly on my side because they all had their hand up but this guy starts screaming.
So I even had liberal people from CBS – I actually said to the CBS guy "Yes?" and this guy stands up and starts screaming.
So when he – and I actually got a lot of credit for the way we handled him. I didn’t do anything like – I didn’t do anything. Except for the Times. And that’s what I alluded to before. The Times said, "Donald Trump railed at him and screamed at him." I didn’t scream at him. But he was screaming at me.
And much worse than that, they said I wore a toupee. Can you believe it? I don’t wear a toupee, and I proved it – I won’t bring anybody up. I won’t bring anybody up. But I don’t.
But think of it. I’m in the front page of the New York Times and in the first sentence in the first paragraph has this announcer – this Hispanic announcer that nobody ever heard of – saying they called him something which means he wears a toupee. And I don’t.
So, I’m on the front page of the New York Times. I can’t even talk about it. I’m embarrassed to talk about it.
But they also said, I was essentially screaming at this guy from Univision, who I happen to be suing for $500 million. They didn’t mention that.
They also didn’t mention that his daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Did you know that? His daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Oh, you didn’t know that. Oh. No, they didn’t mention that. No, no.
They said I was wearing a toupee and I was screaming but they didn’t. No, he’s screaming at me.
So we very nicely – and then we let him come back and we actually had a nice talk. He actually seemed like a nice guy after he calmed down a little bit. You know, he’s a very emotional man.
But, he said, "You can’t build a wall because you can’t do it."
So, 2,000 years ago in China – we always get back to China – 2,000 years ago, the Great Wall of China – oh, we’d like to have a wall. This is a serious wall. Okay? This is a wall you don’t go through so easy.
They built a wall 2,000 years ago that’s 13,000 miles. Think of that. That’s a big wall. That’s serious wall, right? This was 2,000 years ago. I mean, it took them like 500 years to build it so you know, I got to be a little bit – you know, took a long time. But 13,000 miles that’s a long time. They had no tractors. They didn’t have Caterpillars.
Of course, today, we use Komatsus because they’re made in Japan and you could buy them cheaper. How stupid is that? Because they devalued the yen so much and people are buying Komatsus instead of Caterpillars. Caterpillar’s stock is down. It’s terrible. We’ll change that around. Believe me. Believe me.
But, they build this wall. Now, we have really 15 – I would say – look we have 2,000 miles as opposed to 13,000. But you don’t need it on all of it because some you have natural landscaping, some you have a lot of places.
And actually 10 years ago, everybody wanted the wall built. Hillary wanted it built. But they couldn’t.
Because I’m a great builder. What I do best is build. I’m not a rendering guy. I do the building and then do the rendering. A lot of these guys come in with renderings and it never gets built. Does that make sense to anybody? I’m the opposite. I get it built.
So, one of the reasons it couldn’t get built is because they couldn’t get an approved environmental impact study. Do you believe this? No, no, they had certain snail doggers and different things. They couldn’t get it. They could not get an environmental impact study approved to build a wall.
And they’re killing people. We have illegal immigrants. You see that with Kate in San Francisco. You see it with Jamiel. You see it with so many people.
Last night in Massachusetts I met some unbelievable families that have been devastated by illegal immigrants. They come into this country and kill members of their family.
Last week in California, a 66-year-old veteran – a female, a veteran, 66 – got raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. Raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. 66-years-old. By an illegal immigrant that they caught, that they caught luckily.
But this is what we have. We have stupid people in our government and we have people pouring across the border. And you know what? We have great border patrol people. I went there. You probably saw that. That’s why the hat is so successful. The white one, right?
But I went there, everybody wants to buy the hat. Now they like the white one. Then two weeks later, I wore the red one. The white one didn’t sell so well. The red one sells. Crazy thing.
But I went to the border and I got to know the people and I saw people, and you know it’s rough stuff, it’s rough stuff.
And when I first came in and when I first did my opening statement that I was running for President, I talked about illegal immigration. I was killed by the press.
Rush Limbaugh, who I think is a terrific guy, said "Trump has received more incoming than any human being I’ve ever seen. Then he goes and has a news conference and I think he’s going to apologize and he doubles down."
I got credit. I got credit
No, they thought I was going to apologize. And I don’t mind apologizing but I have to make a mistake to apologize and I was right. No, I was right.
So for two weeks, as Rush said, I took incomingIn fact that was my first two weeks. I said "Is it going to be like this for the next year and a half?" I don’t know if I can make it. It was brutal.
Now, many of those people that talked that way, many of those people, they’ve apologized to me. Everybody says I’m right. And only because of me is everybody talking about illegal immigration. They wouldn’t even be talking about it. They wouldn’t even be talking about it.
And we’re going to build a wall and we’re going to get, you know, the gang members in Baltimore and in Chicago and these are some tough dudes. They’re going to be out so fast.
One of the first thing I’m going to do is get rid of those gang members. We’re going to be – you know, you look at what’s going on with Baltimore, you look at what’s going on in Chicago and Ferguson and St. Louis the other night. We are going to get rid of those gang members so fast your head will spin.
You know, we can be very tough. I just met your cops outside. Those police are tough cookies. Those guys – we need law and order. We need law and order.
I mean, they allowed – in one night, that first night in Baltimore – they allowed that city to be destroyed. And they set it back 35 years. One night. Because the police were not allowed to protect people. They weren’t allowed to protect people.
We have incredible law enforcement in this country and we have to be – the head of the police in Chicago is a person I know. Originally from New York. He’s a phenomenal guy. He can stop things if they’re allowed to stop them. He can stop it. Believe me.
We have some incredible people. But we have to be tough. We have to be smart.
You know, I know you’re going to have some bad apples. You’re going to have problems. I see some of the things. You did too and it’s disgusting and it’s horrible. But that’s such a tiny percentage.
The problem is the good work doesn’t get shown on television. All of the good work, which is 99.9%.
I mean, the good work with the police. It’s 99.9%. That one little thing.
And it’s horrible. I agree. I hated some of the things. I don’t have to go into them. But you know the same ones because you were sick when you looked at some of them just like I was.
But we need law and order. We need our police. They’re great people. They do a phenomenal job. They’re right now afraid of doing anything. They’re afraid.
I mean, I know cities. I won’t mention names but I know cities where police are afraid to even talk to people because they want to be able to retire and have their pension; they don’t want to be thrown off the police force.
And then you wonder why there’s crimes in our cities.
So we need a whole new mindset. We have to build up our military. We have to make our military so strong. We have to make our military so powerful and so strong that we never have to use it. We never have to use it.
We also have to focus on what we have – look, Ukraine. I want Ukraine to be healthy, vibrant and good. But Ukraine is near Germany and all of these European countries. We’re now sending F-22s. That’s the newest fighters. The best in the world. We’re sending fighters every – Where’s Germany? Where are all these European countries? It affects them. It affects them. And we want to stand alongside of them. I agree.
But why are we leading the fight? Putin hates us. He hates Obama. He doesn’t hate us. I think he’d like me. I’d get along great with him I think if you want to know the truth. No, he has no respect for our President and our President doesn’t like him in all fairness. They don’t have good chemistry to put it mildly, would you say. But I’d get along with these people.
Think of it. Every country is ripping us off. Even Russia is ripping us off because in the Iran deal, which is going to go down as one of the worst deals ever, Russia is a big beneficiary because they’re going to sell Iran missiles with the money we give to Iran. Think of that.
So one of the biggest beneficiaries is Russia. Okay?
But think of it. So, Ukraine – let’s take a few of these things and then I’m getting the hell out of here; I’m going back to New York. Do you mind? Maybe I’ll go to the Grand Ole Opry tonight. Can I do that?
I’d actually rather – I love – by the way, this is not a politician speaking. Believe me. I hope. I love country music. I love it. Hey, Trace Adkins – right? And who else won on The Apprentice? Who else? John Rich. My kids love those two guys. John Rich. And who else? Who did really well? Clint Black. Right? Clint Black. He did great. And my Trace – how good is Trace, okay?
You know, Trace came onto The Apprentice. And I said, "Who the hell is he? Who is he?" I didn’t know who Trace was. I’d never heard of him. And he wasn’t a big name. And he came on – just to show you how important this show is and his record or album or whatever you call it nowit went to number one. And then he came to me the next yearbut Trace came to me and he goes – you know, at certain awards show, I won’t mention the name – but he said "Last year, I couldn’t get into the show and this year I’m hosting it, Mr. Trump, all because of you."
Nice, right? I know, nice.
But those three guys, they’re great and they’re just fantastic people.
But we’ve got to make our country so strong. We have to make our country rich again.
A person came up and said, "Oh, that’s not nice." What’s not nice? They said rich, you know, to say we’re going to make our country rich.
We can’t make our country great if we’re going to be poor. We’re a debtor nation. We owe $19 trillion.
China – think of this – China we owe $1.4 trillion to. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our base, they take our manufacturing and we owe them $1.4 trillion. How do you do that? That’s like a magic act. Right? It’s true.
Japan sells us cars by the millions. They make a fortune. They come in, they sell us cars by the millions. And we owe them the exact same amount. We owe them $1.4 trillion. How come if they’re selling us cars we owe them money? Think of it. Put on your business. See? I have a natural instinct for this stuff. Right? You know? Right?
If we buy all these cars, why do we owe them money? But we owe them because they take all our money that they make and they buy our bonds. And we’re paying interests on them and we owe them money.
So, it’ll change. It can change. It’s not even going to be hard.
People don’t realize. See, Obama never read the Art of the Deal. People don’t realize.
Oh, and somebody said Sharon. It was Sharon. Where’s Sharon? She gave me such a hard time. Where’s Sharon? Where the hell is she? You could have both Sharons stand up actually. Where are they? Both of them. Sharon is great. Oh, did they go after herShe took a lot of incoming. Sharon, did you take a lot of incoming? I think so. Right? Thank you, darling.
So, we are going to do something that if I get elected – and again they said I’ll never run and nowOne guy said – John McLaughlin – you ever watch the McLaughlin Report? I like him.
And one of the people on the little group said Donald Trump is a great businessman but he’ll never make it as a President. He’ll never get elected. He’ll never make it. And John McLaughlin – this crusty guy who I like; I don’t know him. I never met him, I don’t think. But I like. He’s sitting there and he goes – and he got angry – he goes "Why wouldn’t he make it? You tell me why. He’s been a tremendous success in everything he’s done. I go all over the world. I see him name. I see his name all over. He’s a great success."
And he said – I think this is the word – "He’s a man of great achievement. Why wouldn’t he make it?"
And I thought it was so nice and the other guy just sort of shut up. You know, because you need somebody of great achievement.
You need – I’ve produced tens of thousands of jobs over the year. I don’t have to worry about Obamacare. I take such good care of my employees. I have thousands of employees. I take good care of them. We have great plans. My employees are lucky. They hit the lotto, okay? But I take great care – education and health care – and my people are very happy.
But I’ve done this for a long time, and I’ve seen ups and downs. I’ve seen market crashes. I’ve seen friends of mine go bankrupt. You’ve never seen – I’ve never gone bankrupt. By the way, I’ve used the laws to my advantage and companies.
I buy a company. I throw it into a chapter. I negotiate with banks. I kill. You know. And then they say "Trump goes bankrupt." These people – they don’t have any –
Now, when other people do that, when a Carl does it – I mean, they do it all the time. They use it all the time. It’s called using your head. It’s called using the laws.
Actually I did a good job didn’t I at the debate when Chris Matthews so angrily said – I do what every other great businessman does.
I buy a company – you know, it’s one company was sort of interesting. A friend of mine had it. Good guy. And the banks were just killing him. They were mean. And banks can be mean, right?
You’ve got to teach them how to behave, right?
So this guy was just getting beaten. And I did him a favor and I called up the banks. And I said "Do me this, do this, do this, do that." They said, "We won’t do that. No, we won’t do that."
I said, "You’re making a mistake." Anyways, it’s sort of a little bit complicatedI bought it. Immediately, I called them back and said, "Don’t do this." I threw it into a chapter. And they come out with the story "Trump files bankruptcy". Can you believe it? I negotiated it to hell. What I did to that bank – ayeyeye.
They see me walking down the street and they go "Hey, hey, hey." But then I’m good at that stuff, you know? I’m really good at that stuff.
But you have to use the laws to your advantage. No, no, you have to use it to your advantage.
Atlantic City. You know, you look at Atlantic City. Caesar’s went bankrupt. Whoever heard of Caesar’s? Caesar’s filed Chapter 11. Nobody cares. Everybody in Atlantic City. I had the good sense seven years ago and actually the financial media gives me great credit because I have a vision for things.
I said, "Don’t go into Iraq" even though I’m a very militaristic person. I said "Don’t go into Iraq" and they shouldn’t have because I said you’re going to destabilize the Middle East. So what did we get – $2 trillion. Thousands of deaths. Thousands. Like 5,000. Wounded warriors who I love all over the place.
We can’t even go there. Iran is taking over Iraq. With the money that we’re giving them, they’re going to take off and they’re going to get the oil, they’re going to get everything. The oil they don’t get ISIS is getting. What do we get? Nothing. We get nothing. We got far less than nothing.
So I had vision in 2004 – Reuters – actually it was before that but they wrote a story. Trump says don’t do Iraq.
Now, I’m much more militaristic than Bush, even the brother. But you got to know where to use it and when. You got to use.
So with Atlantic City, seven years ago, I got out. That’s called vision. I should get credit for vision.
And again, this isn’t bragging. Normally, I wouldn’t say this but I need your fricking votes. Do you understand that? Do you understand that?
I mean, normally I wouldn’t. So I got great credit. I got out.
But most of the places in Atlantic City are either in trouble or they’re bankrupt. They went bankrupt.
But I made a lot of money in Atlantic City. I had a great time in Atlantic City but they asked me a nasty question, I gave a great answer. I thought. So I think I solved it.
Listen, we are going to do things that are going to make you so proud if I win.
We are going to have victories again. We are going to win.
In fact, last night in front of the audience and I’ve never said this before. Last night in front of the audience I said we’re going to have so many victories.
And then I said we’re going to win here. We’re going to win on trade.
We’re going to win militarily in terms of not having wars but just having such great strength that nobody’s going to play with us. Nobody’s going to mess with us. Okay? Nobody.
And we’re going to have victories. So many victories that are going to be coming outIn fact, you might get tired of victories. You may not want anymoreAnd everyone stood up and said "No, no, no, we want to keep winning."
If I win, we will have victories all over. We will win on trade. We will win on health care. We will win on everything.
I will protect your Social Security without cuts. I will protect your Medicare and your Medicaid. We are going to have something that’s so special.
And you know, my whole fame is and I’ll say it once. We will make America truly great again.
And thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much!
Thank you, everybody. Great honor. Great honor, thank you. This is a wonderful day. On a Saturday morning yet. Isn't that nice? Thank you, all. And we're going to have an incredible convention. It's really going well. We're going to have an incredible convention. And we're going to get things solved, and we're going to do lots of wonderful things for our country, most importantly.
So I'm here today to introduce the man who will be my partner in this campaign, and the White House, to fix our rigged system — we are in a rigged, rigged system — and to make America safe again and to make America great again.
I want to also address the Islamic terror attack in France. We've witnessed horror beyond belief, no matter where you look. And now it's happening more and more. And it's never going to stop.
We need new leadership. We need new thinking. We need strength. We need in our country law and order. And if I'm elected president, that will happen.
I want to express our unyielding support for the people of France, and we mourn their loss as a nation.
And as far as Turkey is concerned, so many friends in Turkey, great people, amazing people. We wish them well. It looks like they're resolving the difficulty, but we wish them well. A lot — a lot of anguish last night, but hopefully it'll all work out.
Now, as, hopefully, the next president of the United States, I want to refer back to what's happened over the years. The Middle East today is more unstable than ever before. Never been like this. Out of control. After four years of Clinton, who really led the way and led Obama down a horrible path, because I don't even think he could have made these decisions so badly, she led him right down a horrible path. He didn't know what he was doing.
Iraq, Syria, all into chaos. And Iran is on a path to nuclear weapons. And on top of that, we gave them back $150 billion, and we didn't get our hostages until the end. Now we're seeing unrest in Turkey, a further demonstration of the failures of Obama-Clinton. You just have to look, every single thing they touched has turned to horrible, horrible, death-defying problems.
We also need to bring back in this country — because we see what happened — our industry, our manufacturing, our jobs. They've been taken away, like we're babies. Taken away. And we're going to bring them back.
I found the leader who will help us deliver a safe society and a prosperous — really prosperous society for all Americans. Indiana Governor Mike Pence was my first choice. I've admired the work he's done, especially in the state of Indiana. And I'm going to go over some of those accomplishments in just a minute.
But I also admire the fact that he fights for the people, and he's going to fight for you. He is a solid, solid person.
Governor Pence served Indiana with distinction in Congress. He rose to leadership and served as the chairman of the entire House Republican Conference. Number one. He's really got the skills of a highly talented executive, leading the state of Indiana to jobs, growth, and opportunity, in spite of the relentless obstacles put in his way and every state's way by the Obama administration. It's horrible out there. High taxes and regulations. And it's out of control.
Mike Pence is a man of honor, character, and honesty. We know that. Hillary Clinton is the embodiment of corruption. She's a corrupt person. What she's done with her e-mails, what she's done with so many things, and I see the ads up all the time, the ads. She's totally bought and paid for by Wall Street, the special interests, the lobbyists, 100 percent. She's crooked Hillary.
And I think that, while she got away with murder, in fact, I think it might be her greatest accomplishment, escaping the recent scandal, and her lies, and the loss of 33,000 e-mails — but it wasn't a loss, she discarded — that in itself is a major crime. Other people have been paying tremendous prices for what they've done, which is peanuts compared to what happened with Hillary Clinton.
Thirty-three thousand e-mails are missing, and that's OK? Didn't give them to the FBI? Didn't give them to the attorney general, and that's OK? Wipes her server clean, that's OK? These are crimes. These are crimes. And how she got away with it, I think I understand it, but I think a lot of people don't.
But I do believe, while she didn't pay the price she should have paid, she's going to pay that price when November 8th rolls around. She's going to pay it at the polls. I believe that.
On top of everything else, Hillary made $21.6 million giving speeches to special interests in a short period of time. She's totally owned by Wall Street. We believe in Americanism; she believes in globalism. And it's not that she believes in it. The people that give her all of this money believe in it. And she'll believe in whatever they want her to believe. Believe me. That's it.
What a difference between crooked Hillary Clinton and Mike Pence.
Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy: Radical Islam. Radical Islamic terrorism. You saw it the other day with the truck screaming out the window. You heard what he was screaming out the window. You saw it in San Bernardino. You saw it at the World Trade Center. You saw it in Orlando. How horrible was that? You saw it in Paris. You see it all over.
And Hillary is a weak person. We are the law and order candidates, and we're the law and order party. We're going to change things around. There's going to be respect again for law and order.
Hillary Clinton's foreign policy helped launch ISIS. You know, she's talking — I see the ads she puts on. If I make one statement, which is fine, she'll take that statement and put on a totally dishonest ad, because she's got a lot of money because it's given to her by the lobbyists and by the special interests. Got a lot of money.
But I see the ads on foreign policy. She's talking about Donald Trump doesn't have foreign policy experience. Of course not. I've been a very, very, very successful businessperson. I mean — but — but if you look at my calls, I said, don't go into Iraq. Nobody cared, because I was a businessperson. I was a civilian. Take the oil. Many, many calls I've made.
You take a look. I said that in Scotland and in the U.K., that was going to happen. I was the one that predicted it. And everybody said, he's wrong, he's wrong. President Obama said, if it happens, they're going to get to the back of the line, which probably is one of the reasons they lost, because I consider it a win. I think it was a win for them, actually, because they don't want to be told what to do. And they don't want to be told that when people pour into the country, they have to take them even if they're not qualified, even if they don't have paperwork, even if they have no idea where they come from.
And I said that Brexit's going to happen. I said that they are going to break away. And everybody laughed at me. And the odds were 20 percent. And then when it happened, she took an ad saying, oh, Donald Trump said this or that, but I'm the one that said it was going to happen. And some of the more fair reporters — about 30 percent of them — said he was right. I appreciate that. Seventy percent didn't, so that's OK.
So Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy. So important. Now, I think if you look at one of the big reasons that I chose Mike — and one of the reasons is party unity, I have to be honest. So many people have said party unity. Because I'm an outsider. I want to be an outsider. I think it's one of the reasons I won in landslides. I won in landslides. This wasn't close. This wasn't close.
Now, this wasn't close. This was — in the history of the Republican Party, history, with 17 people running, you have to understand, other people ran against one, two, and three. There were 17. We got — I say we, because I'm the messenger, I'm a messenger — I'm doing a good job, but I'm a messenger — we got almost 14 million votes. That's more than any other person in the history of the Republican Party in the primary system running for president.
Think of it. That's more than Ronald Reagan, who we love. That's more than Richard Nixon. It's more than Dwight D. Eisenhower. You know, he won the Second World War, in all fairness. Pretty good. It's more than the Bushes.
But I mean by a lot. I don't mean by a little. But that's with 17 people. People don't over-say that. That means our message is unbelievable. And I want to thank all of the loyal people — because I have such loyal, unbelievable people, and they displayed that just yesterday in Cleveland, where it's going to be so amazing.
But they displayed it. It was on display, where we had this group of people, who — many of whom I've known, and I won't say, because for party unity, I'll say they're wonderful people, OK? Never Trump, they said, never Trump, never Trump. Oh, we're going to win. They got crushed. And they got crushed immediately, because people want what we're saying to happen.
They're tired of a country that has horrible trade deals, that has no borders, that has taxes that are through the roof, highest taxed nation just about in the world, that has regulations that don't allow you to start a business and destroy your business if you do start — and, by the way, speaking of destroying businesses, we're going to take care of the miners and we're going to take care of the steelworkers. We're going to put them back to work.
So they're very tired of it. But I want to thank all of those people that — delegates that were on the different committees, because, boy, was that something. Did we show them something. And unfortunately, the vote was very late. But essentially, we had 112- 12. This was the vote that was going to put it onto the floor and we're going to have a big fight. We're not going to have a fight. People agree with what we've — they want the wall. They want the borders. They want these things to happen.
And what we're doing...
And what we're doing that I'm so proud of, so proud — and nobody else would even think about doing it — I fought very hard for it. We'll call it the Johnson amendment, where he took away from the evangelicals — and I want to thank the evangelicals, because without the evangelicals, I could not have won this nomination. The evangelicals have been unbelievable. I dominated with the evangelicals. A lot of people were surprised. They say he's not perfect. But you know what? They know I'm going to get the job done, and they're really smart.
And I said — and I said for the evangelicals, that we're going to do something that nobody's even tried to do. You have the Johnson amendment passed by Lyndon Johnson and his group. And he was a powerful president. He knew how to get things done. He got bogged down in a war that was a disaster and it destroyed him. But he was a powerful president.
And we call it the Johnson amendment, where you are just absolutely shunned if you're evangelical, if you want to talk religion, you lose your tax-exempt status. We put into the platform, we're going to get rid of that horrible Johnson amendment. And we're going to let evangelicals, we're going to let Christians and Jews and people of religion talk without being afraid to talk.
I saw this. I had so many great leaders so many times up to my office, the top — the absolute top evangelical leaders, Christian leaders, Jewish leaders, believe it or not, some Muslim leaders — people are going to be surprised to hear that — I had the top leaders up to my office, and I said, why is it that you're so powerful as an individual, and yet when you get out there, you're sort of timid?
And they didn't know how to answer the question. And it took two, three meetings before I figured it out. One great, great gentleman that everybody knows, but whose name I will not reveal, said, Mr. Trump, we live in fear in our churches and our synagogues. We live in fear that we're going to lose our tax-exempt status if we say anything that's even slightly political.
And I looked out the window. I was in Trump Tower, and I pointed to people walking down the street. I said, well, they have the right to speak, but you don't. That means they're more powerful than you are. We have to do something about it. How did it start? How did it start?
And they said, it started because of Lyndon Johnson. And he actually had a problem in Texas with a certain religious leader. And he did this, and he got it done. And we're going to undo it, so that religious leaders in this country, and those unbelievable people, and not because they backed me in such large numbers, but so that religion can again have a voice, because religion's voice has been taken away. And we're going to change that. OK? All right.
Back to Mike Pence. So one of the primary reasons I chose Mike was I looked at Indiana, and I won Indiana big. Remember, Indiana was going to be the firewall. That's where Trump was going to — they agreed I'd win New York, I'd win Pennsylvania, I'd win all these places. But Indiana was going to be the firewall.
So I got to study Indiana, and I got to study New York and a lot of other places, and I saw how NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, has drained our manufacturing jobs, just drained us like we've never been drained before. NAFTA, again, signed by Bill Clinton. NAFTA is the worst economic deal in the history of our country. Manufacturing down in some states 55 percent, 60 percent. It's a horror show, moving to Mexico, moving to other places.
I have a friend who's a great builder. What he builds is plants. That's all he does, is build plants. He doesn't build buildings. He doesn't — he builds plants. It's the biggest in the world, from what I hear.
I said, how's business? I was with him the other day. How's business? He goes unbelievable. I said, really, wow, I'm surprised. Why is it unbelievable? Because I think of him as building in this country. He says, Donald, what we're doing in Mexico, you won't believe. I said, what do you mean? He said, we're building plants in Mexico the likes of which we've never seen.
I said, what about this country? Not much. Not much. That's the expression. He said exactly that. Not much. I said, but Mexico? He said, you've never seen anything like it. It's incredible.
Folks, that's going to stop. We're going to go reverse it. We're going to bring our jobs back to this country. We can't be the stupid people anymore. OK?
And he was better than a pollster. He's better than a consultant. I would say, how are we doing? And you get a big report that costs you millions of dollars. Doesn't cost me millions. Me, I give them $10,000, OK?
It costs other people millions. It costs other campaigns millions to get a report. Every time they get a report, it's millions. But I'll tell you what, a guy like this is better than anybody you can hire to do a report. And he said it. He didn't say it from the standpoint of he's upset about it. Just fact. How are we doing? Unbelievable in Mexico. In fact, he actually said, I've never, ever seen anything like it.
And if you look, Ford is building massive plants there instead of Michigan. We want them to build them in Michigan. They're going to build them in Michigan. And you know that I know how to do that. So easy. So easy.
But they're not going to do and they're not going to take advantage of us without retribution. There are consequences when you fire thousands of people and move to another country and then think you're going to you're your product and sell it in here. There are consequences. And those consequences are going to keep companies in our country. It's very simple. And everybody here knows what the consequences are, but I won't say that because I'm much more interested right now in Mike.
Indiana's unemployment rate — and this is the primary reason I wanted Mike, other than he looks very good, other than he's got an incredible family, incredible wife and family — Karen is amazing.
Incredible family. Highly respected. Expected to go for another four years. He would have won, I think, very easily in Indiana. Indiana, their unemployment rate has fallen, when he was there, when he started, 8.4 percent when he was governor, when he took over, to less than 5 percent in May of 2016. Since January 2013, Indiana's labor force has increased by more than 186,000 jobs. You have to understand, I've gone around to all these states. I've gone to all of them. And every time, I have statisticians. I say give me the stats on a state.
And it's always bad, down, down, down. Down 40 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent in some cases. Here's somebody where it's gone up. Private sector job growth is up by more than 147,000 jobs since 2013. That's like very unusual.
Governor Pence balanced the budget. Can you imagine a balanced budget? Our budget's so out of whack in this country, we don't know what we're doing. We're going to owe very soon $21 trillion. He balanced the budget. They don't know what that means. Governor Pence balanced the budget, produced a surplus, and maintains a $2 billion reserve fund in the state of Indiana.
It's also rated AAA, their bonds are rated AAA. Very few states have that. AAA. The best. That's as good as you can get, whether you're a company, a state, AAA.
Indiana was recently recognized by Chief Executive Magazine as the number-one state in the Midwest for business. Number one. And it's not even close. There are approximately 34,000 fewer Hoosiers on unemployment insurance now than there were when Mike Pence took office. So you have fewer Hoosiers, fewer people from Indiana.
And besides that, Bobby Knight, my friend, who really did help me. I mean, if you want a reference, Bobby Knight in Indiana, we love Bobby Knight. But he agrees with everything I'm saying. He loves the governor.
Indiana has the second-lowest unemployment rate in the nation, for veterans, where nobody's fighting for the veterans like I'm fighting for the veterans, the veterans have been left behind.
If you remember a few months ago, Hillary Clinton said really — they're doing much better, the V.A. is much better. They're doing a much better job than people give it credit for. People are dying on line waiting for five, six days for doctors. People are dying on — they can't even see a doctor. It's a scandal.
Take a look at what's happening with the V.A. in Arizona. Take a look at what's happening with — you know, just the Veterans Administration hospitals. It's a scandal. It's corrupt. It's incompetent. It's a scandal. And Hillary Clinton thought it was just fine. And, boy, am I going to win big with the veterans. I mean, we know that for a fact.
So it's now 2.4 percent for veterans. In 2013, when Mike Pence took office, the rate for veterans was 6.7 percent. It was 31st in the nation, one of the bad ones, and now it's almost the best. Got them jobs. Got them jobs.
Indianapolis is ranked second in top 10 metro areas for young college graduates. That's a great thing. They're going to stay there. That's a great thing. And Mike worked hard on that. He was telling me, that was not easy.
Under Governor Pence's leadership, Indiana enacted the largest K- 12 education funding increase in the state's history. So you're balancing budgets, and yet you're giving more money to education. Isn't that a great thing?
Indiana has just about the largest school choice program in America. School choice is where it's at, folks. You want to get your schools better, you better get rid of Common Core fast.
Governor Pence enacted the largest income tax cut in the state's history. Think of that. We're cutting taxes and balancing budgets. And along with corporate tax reform, just about number one in the country. CNBC ranked Indiana first in the nation for its infrastructure.
So with all of these cuts and all of these balancing budgets, we're spending more money on education, and the infrastructure is kept up. That had so much — look, as a builder, nobody in the history of this country has ever known so much about infrastructure as Donald Trump. I build infrastructure. Do I know how to build a wall? Do I know how to build infrastructure?
You know, it's very interesting. We're building — we're building — I won the — which is pretty amazing with the Obama administration, but I won the right to have the old post office building on Pennsylvania Avenue, right near the White House, and it's an amazing — probably the best location, one of the most sought after projects in the history of the GSA, General Services. And I really like what's happened.
We're going to have an opening very soon. Ivanka and Eric and Don did a fantastic job on it.
But I thought the other day, I was going over the numbers, we're under budget and about a year — actually more than a year — we're a year ahead of schedule, and we're under budget substantially. And the quality of the work is even better than we originally were going to do.
And when I explained to a government representative that we're under budget and ahead of schedule, they almost fell off, because they've never heard those words before. They've never heard them.
So when I see what happened to Indiana, which was having tremendous problems, when I see what happened to Indiana under Mike's work — also his predecessor did a great job, by the way, great job, who's now at Duke — who's now at Purdue — when I see what happened with respect to the numbers, the state, and everything else, that, to me, was probably the single most important point, because it's something that hasn't happened — almost has not happened in this whole country.
The turnaround and the strength of Indiana has been incredible, and I learned that when I campaigned there. And I learned that when I won that state in a landslide. And I learned that when Governor Pence, under tremendous pressure from establishment people, endorsed somebody else, but it was more of an endorsement for me, if you remember. He talked about Trump, then he talked about Ted — who's a good guy, by the way, who's going to be speaking at the convention, Ted Cruz, good guy — but he talked about Trump, Ted, then he went back to Trump. I said, who did he endorse?
So even though he was under pressure, because I'm so, you know, outside of the establishment, it was the single greatest non- endorsement I've ever had in my life, OK? I will tell you.
So with that, I would like to introduce a man who I truly believe will be outstanding in every way and will be the next vice president of the United States, Governor Mike Pence. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.
WOW. WOW! WHOA! THAT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE. THAT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE. THANK YOU, EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. ALL RIGHT. LET'S TURN THAT MUSIC DOWN. WE WANT TO GET TO BUSINESS, RIGHT? GET TO BUSINESS. HOW IS YOUR GOVERNOR DOING, BY THE WAY? GOOD? I THINK SO. I THINK SO. I JUST WANT TO THANK ALL OF THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA. YOU KNOW, WE HAD A GREAT VICTORY HERE NOT SO LONG AGO. AND INDIANA WAS THE STATE THAT PUT ME OVER THE TOP. THANK YOU, FOLKS. THANK YOU. WELL, WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS TO DISCUSS, BUT WE HAD SOME VERY BAD NEWS A FEW DAYS AGO, AND YOU SAW WHAT HAPPENED. A LOT OF BAD THINGS ARE HAPPENING. AND I WAS GOING TO GO THROUGH A WHOLE LITANY OF THAT, BUT WE DON'T WANT TO. WE WANT TO BE UPBEAT. WE WANT TO BE POSITIVE. WE WANT TO BE STRONG. AND WE'RE GOING TO BE STRONG. WE'RE GOING TO BE STRONGER THAN EVER BEFORE. WE'RE GOING TO BE GREATER THAN EVER BEFORE. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR JOBS BACK. WE'RE GOING BRING OUR MILITARY BACK. IT'S BEING DEPLETED SO BADLY. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETERANS, WHICH WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF. WE'RE GOING TO GET RID OF OBAMACARE, WHICH IS A DISASTER. AND REPLACE IT WITH SOMETHING TERRIFIC. WE END COMMON CORE. WE BRING OUR EDUCATION BACK TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES LIKE THIS LOCAL COMMUNITY WHERE THE PEOPLE LOVE THEIR CHILDREN AND THEY WANT TO SEE THEIR CHILDREN BE WELL EDUCATED. IT'S SO IMPORTANT. WE'RE GOING TO SAVE OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. WE'RE GOING TO SAVE OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. AND IT'S UNDER SIEGE. YOU KNOW, I WROTE A FEW WORDS TODAY. AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE GO THROUGH IT AS A GROUP. IT'S BEEN A SPECIAL PLACE AND YOU'RE SPECIAL PEOPLE. AND I KNOW SO MANY PEOPLE TONIGHT IN THE AUDIENCE. AND YOU'RE ALL OVER. LOOK AT ALL THOSE CAMERAS UP THERE, FOLKS. LOOK AT ALL THOSE CAMERAS. THEY DON'T STOP. THEY DON'T STOP. BUT I JUST WANTED TO SAY I WROTE THIS QUICKLY, BUT IT MEANS IT CAME RIGHT FROM THE HEART. AND I HAVE TO SAY THAT OUR WHOLE NATION GRIEVES AND MOURNS FOR THE LOSS OF FIVE HEROS IN DALLAS, LAW ENFORCEMENT. THESE WERE GREAT, GREAT PEOPLE. GREAT PEOPLE. WE PRAY FOR THEIR FAMILIES. WE PRAY FOR THEIR LOVED ONES. WE PRAY FOR ALL THE WOUNDED SURVIVORS. WE PRAY FOR OUR COUNTRY. IT'S SO IMPORTANT. THE POLICE ARE NOT JUST PART OF OUR SOCIETY. OUR POLICE ARE THE BEST OF OUR SOCIETY. REMEMBER THAT. WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT. THEY REPRESENT OUR HIGHEST IDEALS, OUR GREATEST VALUES, AND OUR MOST NOBLE CHARACTERISTICS. WHEN OUR POLICE ARE ATTACKED, OUR ENTIRE NATION IS ATTACKED. REMEMBER THAT. REMEMBER THAT. SO THE MESSAGE MUST BE DELIVERED CLEARLY FOR ALL TO HEAR, THE HOSTILITY AGAINST OUR POLICE HAS TO END, AND IT HAS TO END RIGHT NOW. AND WE HAVE TO SAY TOGETHER, AND WE HAVE TO BE STRONG. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF EVERYONE. THE TWO PEOPLE THAT WERE KILLED IN LOUISIANA AND MINNESOTA, IT WAS TOUGH. IT WAS TOUGH TO WATCH FOR EVERYBODY HERE IT WAS TOUGH TO WATCH. WE HAVE TO FIGURE IT OUT. WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT WHAT IS GOING ON. WAS IT TRAINING? WAS IT SOMETHING ELSE? IT COULD HAVE BEEN SOMETHING ELSE. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF EVERYBODY. REMEMBER THAT. BUT WE HAVE TO ALSO  —  WE HAVE TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THINGS. WE HAVE TO. BUT WE CAN NEVER, EVER FORGET THE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF GREAT DEALS AND GREAT THINGS THAT OUR POLICE ALL OVER THE COUNTRY DO, AND NOBODY RECOGNIZES THEM FOR WHAT THEY DO. AND WHEN THERE IS A PROBLEM, AS BAD AS THESE TWO SITUATIONS WERE, AND I PERSONALLY THINK THEY WERE, THEY WERE BAD. I HATED, I HATED WATCHING IT. BUT AS BAD AS THEY WERE, THEY GET BROADCAST ALL OVER THE WORLD FOR DAYS AND DAYS, AND ALL OF THE GOOD THINGS WHICH ARE MAGNIFIED THOUSANDS OF TIMES, NOBODY TALKS ABOUT. SO WE HAVE TO REMEMBER, WE HAVE TO CHERISH AND TAKE CARE OF OUR POLICE. IF WE DON'T, IF WE DON'T, WE DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY ANYMORE. WE HAVE A COUNTRY IN CHAOS. AND REMEMBER THIS. AND I SAY IT ONCE, AND I SAY IT WITH LOVE, AND I SAY IT WITH COMPASSION. BECAUSE I HAVE LOVE FOR OUR COUNTRY, AND I HAVE GREAT COMPASSION FOR OUR PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY. BUT I AM THE LAW AND ORDER CANDIDATE. WE NEED LAW AND ORDER, AND WE NEED STRENGTH IN THIS COUNTRY. WE DON'T HAVE STRENGTH IN OUR COUNTRY. WE HAVE CROOKED HILLARY CLINTON, AS CROOKED AS YOU GET. I MEAN, YOU SAW THAT WITH THE E-MAILS. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM, FOLKS. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM. JUST REMEMBER IT. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM. IT'S RIGGED IN SO MANY DIFFERENT WAYS. WE'RE GOING TO STRAIGHTEN IT OUT. YOU CAN'T EVEN WATCH WHAT HAPPENS. WE HAD A YOUNG MAN WHO DID NOTHING BY COMPARISON TO WHAT SHE DID, AND HE WARNED HIS FRIENDS OF A PROBLEM THAT WAS COMING MILITARILY. AND THEY CAME DOWN ON HIM WITH A VENGEANCE. AND THEY LET HER GO. 33,000 MISSING E-MAILS. THEY LET HER GO. LIES ALL OVER THE PLACE. AND THEY LET HER GO. THINK OF IT. IT'S A DISGRACE. SO WE'RE GOING TO GET ON TO OTHER SUBJECTS. BUT I HAVE TO SAY LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS TO REMAIN WITH US. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF OUR POLICE AND OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS. WE'RE GOING TO DO IT. WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO DO IT. WE'RE GOING REMEMBER THAT THEY DO A FABULOUS JOB. WE'RE GOING TO REMEMBER THAT THEY DO A GREAT JOB. AND EVERY ONCE IN A WHILE, PROBLEMS WILL HAPPEN. AND WE'RE GOING TAKE CARE OF THOSE PROBLEMS. AND THEY CAN BE BAD PROBLEMS. BUT WE ARE GOING TO TREAT OUR POLICE WITH RESPECT. REMEMBER THAT. OKAY? NOW I'M LOOKING AT DIFFERENT RATES AND DIFFERENT CRIMES. AND YOU SEE THE CRIME RATE IN LARGE PORTIONS OF OUR COUNTRY IS GOING WAY UP. YOU LOOK AT CERTAIN INNER CITIES, AND LOOK AT CHICAGO. LOOK AT WHAT IS GOING ON. SINCE PRESIDENT OBAMA BECAME PRESIDENT, ALMOST 5,000 KILLINGS IN CHICAGO. AND NOBODY TALKS ABOUT IT. WELL, WE'RE GOING TO START TALKING ABOUT IT. BECAUSE WE HAVE TO MAKE THIS A SAFE COUNTRY. AND, YOU KNOW, I WOULD SAY TWO WEEKS AGO, A MONTH AGO, I WOULDN'T BE SAYING THESE WORDS. I WAS TALKING ABOUT THE BORDER. I WAS TALKING ABOUT THE WALL. AND WE WILL BUILD THE WALL. THAT I CAN TELL YOU. I CAN TELL YOU. WE'RE GOING TO BUILD IT. DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT. ARE YOU READY? WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE WALL?
 I DON'T HEAR YOU. WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE WALL?
AND THEY WILL. VERY MUCH. THEY WILL. 100%. AND YOU KNOW WHAT? THEY'LL BE HAPPY TO PAY FOR THE WALL. WE HAVE A TRADE DEFICIT WITH MEXICO THAT YOU WOULDN'T BELIEVE. BILLIONS AND BILLIONS AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS A YEAR. WE'RE LOSING ON THE BORDER. WE'RE LOSING ON TRADE. AND WHEN I WAS IN THE DEBATES AND I MENTIONED THIS, PEOPLE WOULD COME UP THAT I WAS DEBATING AGAINST, AND THEY USED TO SAY DONALD, YOU'RE NOT REALLY GOING TO BUILD A WALL, ARE YOU? I SAY ABSOLUTELY. THEY SAY BUT YOU CAN'T BUILD A WALL. BUT I'M IN THE CONSTRUCTION. YOU KNOW HOW EASY A WALL IS? A WALL. WE BUILD 95-STORY BUILDINGS WITH BATHROOMS. THAT'S TOUGH CONSTRUCTION, NOT A WALL. WALLS DON'T HAVE BATHROOMS. AND BATHROOMS ARE ALWAYS TOUGH. BUT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A VERY BIG BEAUTIFUL GATE IN THAT WALL, BIG AND BEAUTIFUL. AND THAT GATE IS GOING TO BE OPEN. AND IT'S GOING TO BE WIDE OPEN FOR PEOPLE TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY, BUT THEY'RE GOING TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY LEGALLY. THEY'RE GOING TO COME IN LEGALLY. AND THERE ARE GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT LOVE OUR COUNTRY. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT HATE OUR COUNTRY. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT WE DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY COME FROM. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT COME FROM THE MIGRATION THAT DON'T HAVE PAPERWORK, THAT DON'T HAVE PASSPORTS, THAT WE HAVE NO IDEA WHERE THEY'RE FROM. WE HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THEIR MOTIVES ARE. WE'RE GOING TO SAY NO. SORRY. NO. AND WE'LL HELP. AND IN SYRIA, WE'LL BUILD SAFE ZONES, AND WE'LL GET OTHER PEOPLE TO PUT UP THE MONEY, BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO OWE VERY SOON 20 TRILLION, TRILLION WITH A T. NOBODY EVEN KNOWS WHAT IT MEANS. WE'RE GOING TO OWE  —  RIGHT NOW, CAN YOU BELIEVE THIS? $20 TRILLION. SOON GOING TO $21 TRILLION. SO WE'RE GOING GET THE GULF STATES WHO HAVE SO MUCH MONEY, FOLKS. SO MUCH MONEY. AND WE'RE GOING TO GET THEM TO PUT UP THE MONEY AND OTHERS. AND WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE. AND WE'RE GOING HAVE COMPASSION. BUT WE CAN'T ALLOW THEM TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY. WE HAVE ENOUGH PROBLEMS RIGHT NOW. YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN ORLANDO. YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN SAN BERNARDINO. WE CAN'T ALLOW IT TO HAPPEN. SO WE'RE GOING TO BUILD SAFE ZONES. WE'RE GOING TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE OTHER PEOPLE FUND THESE SAFE ZONES. WE'RE GOING TO BUILD UP OUR MILITARY. WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER BEEN IN IRAQ. BUT ONCE WE WENT INTO IRAQ, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER LEFT THE WAY WE LEFT. WE LEFT LIKE FOOLS. WE WENT IN, SHOULD HAVE NEVER HAPPENED. I DIDN'T WANT TO GO FROM THE BEGINNING, AND I HAVE PROOF FROM THE BEGINNING. I DIDN'T WANT IRAQ. I SAID YOU'RE GOING TO DESTABILIZE THE ENTIRE MIDDLE EAST, AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED. BUT THEN WE WERE THERE. LOSING THOUSANDS OF LIVES, SPENDING TRILLIONS AND TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS. PROBABLY IN THE MIDDLE EAST WE'RE UP TO $4 TRILLION. AND WE'RE IN WORSE SHAPE NOW THAN WE WERE 15 YEARS AGO BEFORE THE WHOLE DEAL STARTED. FAR WORSE. NOT EVEN CLOSE. FAR WORSE. FAR WORSE. SO WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO IS WE'RE GOING TO START THINKING SMART. WE'RE GOING TO BE SMART AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT MILITARY, AND BY THE WAY, I SAID FOR YEARS WE'VE GOT TO KEEP THE OIL. I SAID KEEP THE OIL. YOU LEAVE, YOU KEEP THE OIL. WE DIDN'T DO IT. WE DIDN'T DO IT. I SAID IT FOR YEARS. ONCE WE WERE IN, I SAID WHEN WE GET OUT, IT'S GOING TO BE A DISASTER, BUT WHEN WE GET OUT, WE SHOULD HAVE LEFT SOME TROOPS THERE. AND I HATE SAYING THAT. BUT WE SHOULD HAVE LEFT SOME TROOPS THERE, AND IT WOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER, CERTAINLY, THAN IT IS RIGHT NOW. CAN'T BE ANY WORSE. BUT I ALWAYS SAID KEEP THE OIL. BUT WE DIDN'T KEEP THE OIL. SO WHO HAS THE OIL RIGHT NOW? A LOT OF THE OIL IS HAD BY ISIS. AND WE CREATED ISIS. AND HILLARY CLINTON THROUGH HER INCOMPETENCE DIRECTLY AND INDIRECTLY CREATED ISIS. AND NOW SHE WANTS TO GET RID OF IT. SHE SAYS YES, WE WILL FIGHT ISIS. SHE IS THE ONE THAT CREATED IT WITH STUPIDITY, WITH STUPID, STUPID POLICY. POLICY THAT'S ONLY GOING TO GET WORSE. SHE IS THE ONE THAT CREATED IT. AND THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENED. AND SO NOW WE HAVE PROBLEMS ALL OVER THE PLACE. WE HAVE OUR CITIES EXPLODING. WE HAVE ISIS LOOKING AT US. AND BY THE WAY, WHEN OUR ENEMIES ALL OVER THE WORLD, INCLUDING OUR FRIENDS ALL OVER THE WORLD LOOK AT WHAT'S HAPPENING TO OUR COUNTRY, WHERE THE OTHER NIGHT YOU HAD 11, THINK OF IT, 11 CITIES POTENTIALLY IN A BLOWUP STAGE. MARCHES ALL OVER THE UNITED STATES, AND TOUGH MARCHES, ANGER, HATRED, HATRED. STARTED BY A MANIAC THAT SOME PEOPLE ASKED FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR HIM. FOR THE KILLER, FOR THE KILLER. OKAY? SO WHEN OUR ENEMIES LOOK AT WHAT IS GOING ON WITH OUR COUNTRY, THEY SEE OUR DEFICITS. THEY SEE WE DON'T WIN ANYMORE. WE DON'T WIN. WE DON'T WIN. WE DON'T WIN AT ANYTHING. I ALWAYS SAY WHEN I WAS GOING, WHEN I WAS YOUNG GOING TO HIGH SCHOOL AND GOING TO COLLEGE AND BEFORE THAT WE NEVER LOST. YOU KNOW, UNITED STATES, THEY SAID HAD NEVER LOST A WAR. NOW WE NEVER WIN. WE DON'T WIN ON TRADE. WE DON'T WIN WITH OUR MILITARY. OUR MILITARY IS SO DEPLETED, OUR MILITARY HAS FIGHTER JETS THAT ARE IN USE FLOWN BY GREAT, GREAT AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT ARE SO OLD, AND THEY CAN'T GET PARTS FOR THE FIGHTER JETS. THESE ARE PEOPLE FLYING THESE JETS NOW IN COMBAT. THEY CAN'T GET PARTS. SO THEY GO TO THE PLANE GRAVEYARDS IN THE DESERTS. THEY GO TO MUSEUMS WHERE THEY HAVE SIMILAR PLANES, AND THEY STRIP APART TO USE FOR OUR FIGHTER PILOTS TO FLY. THIS IS WHAT WE'VE BEEN REDUCED TO. AND I'LL TELL YOU SOMETHING. HILLARY CLINTON IS INCOMPETENT, OKAY. THE GREATEST SINGLE THING IN MY OPINION THAT SHE'S EVER DONE IS TO GET OUT OF THE E-MAIL PROBLEM. I THINK IT IS INCREDIBLE. SHE DID A GREAT JOB ON THAT. I THINK IT IS HER GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT. I THINK WHEN THEY LOOK BACK ON HILLARY CLINTON, THEY WILL SAY THE GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT OF HILLARY CLINTON WAS GETTING OUT OF THIS PROBLEM WITH E-MAIL TZ. HOUDINI COULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN OUT. SHE WAS SO GUILTY. I HAVE A LIST. LOOK. PAGE AFTER PAGE OF THE LIES  —  PAGE AFTER PAGE OF THE LIES. ALL OVER. LOOK AT THIS. PAGE, PAGE. LOOK, I DON'T WANT TO READ IT TO YOU. THE PRESS WOULD SAY, YOU SHOULD SPEND YOUR ENTIRE SPEECH TALKING ABOUT HILLARY CLINTON AND THE E-MAILS. I DON'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT. YOU KNOW WHAT, IT WAS ALL LIES, FOLKS. I DON'T HAVE TO GO THROUGH AND BORE EVERYBODY. IT WAS SO HORRIBLE. IT WAS SO DISGUSTING. IT WAS SO OUTRAGEOUS. YOU LOOK AT GENERAL PETRAEUS AND LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO HIM FOR A TINY FRACTION OF WHAT CROOKED HILLARY DID. YOU LOOK AT OTHER PEOPLE, FOR A TINY FRACTION, LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM. SO I JUST TELL YOU THIS, WE HAVE A CANDIDATE ON THE OTHER SIDE WHO, IF SHE EVER GETS ELECTED, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE DISGUSTING YEARS OF OBAMA, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF WEAKNESS, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF CIVIL UNREST. IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF NOT WINNING WITH OUR MILITARY AND NOT WINNING AGAINST ISIS. THEY DON'T HAVE A CLUE HOW TO BEAT ISIS. THEY DON'T HAVE A CLUE. BUT IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF OBAMA, AND OBAMA CARE AND ALL OF THESE THINGS THAT DON'T WORK. EXCEPT I THINK ACTUALLY IT WILL BE WORSE. TODAY I SEE BERNIE SANDERS GAVE HER THIS VERY YOU KNOW, SORT OF STRANGE ENDORSEMENT. I WANT TO TELL YOU, A LOT OF BERNIE SANDERS PEOPLE ARE SO UPSET ABOUT IT, THEY ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. I REALLY BELIEVE THAT. THEY'RE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. THEY ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. BECAUSE THE ONE THING THAT BERNIE SANDERS AND I HAVE IN COMMON WAS TRADE. NOW HE CAN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT. HE JUST KNEW IT WAS BAD. I KNOW HOW TO FIX IT. BECAUSE I AM IN FAVOR OF FREE TRADE. A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY I'M AN ISOLATIONIST, WHEN YOU LOSE $800 BILLION A YEAR ON TRADE DEFICITS, MAYBE THAT IS NOT THE WORSE THING. BUT WE'LL STRAIGHT IT OUT. I BELIEVE IN OPEN BORDERS FOR TRADE AND FREE TRADE. THE PROBLEM WE HAVE IS THAT VIRTUALLY EVERY SINGLE COUNTRY THAT DEALS WITH US ARE FAR SHARPER AND FAR BETTER. THEY HAVE THEIR BEST NEGOTIATORS. WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT ARE POLITICAL HACKS NEGOTIATING FOR US AND PEOPLE THAT DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING. I HAVE THE GREATEST BUSINESSMEN IN THE WORLD THAT HAVE ENDORSED ME, INCLUDING PEOPLE LIKE CARL ICAHN, GREAT BUSINESSMAN. WE HAVE SOME OF THE GREATEST NEGOTIATORS, MAYBE THE GREATEST IN THE WORLD AND WE DON'T USE THEM. WE USE POLITICAL HACKS. WE HAVE PEOPLE IN THERE THAT GOT IN FOR POLITICS. YOU COULD LOOK AT THE BIGGEST COMPANIES IN THE WORLD, AND IT IS SMALL POTATOES. IT IS PEANUTS COMPARED TO SOME OF THE MASSIVE TRADE DEALS. AND WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT SHOULD NEVER BE NEGOTIATING TRADE DEALS. JUST LIKE WE HAVE SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY NEGOTIATING WITH IRAN, AND WHAT THEY DID TO HIM AND YOU BECAUSE HE HAS NO IDEA WHAT THE HELL HE WAS DOING AND WHAT HE GAVE AWAY, ISRAEL IS IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY, FRANKLY WE'RE IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY, AND WE MADE A POWER OUT OF IRAN. WE MADE A POWER. NUMBER ONE, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER GONE IN AND NEGOTIATED THAT DEAL UNTIL WE GOT OUR HOSTAGES BACK. EVER. EVER. WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER, EVER GONE IN. AND WHAT YOU SAY IS, FOLKS, WE HAVE TO GET THEM BACK. AND IF YOU DON'T WANT TO GIVE THEM BACK, YOU LEAVE THE MEETING. YOU LEAVE THE MEETING. AND YOU DOUBLE UP YOUR SANCTIONS, YOU WOULD HAVE HAD THEM BACK WITHIN 24 HOURS, I GUARANTEE YOU THAT. BUT WE DSHTIDN'T DO THAT. I KEPT WAITING FOR THE WHOLE DELEGATION, I KEPT WAITING FOR THEM TO LEAVE, TO GET UP AND LEAVE. I USED TO SAY GET UP AND LEAVE. PERFECT. GET UP. WE DIDN'T WIN ANYTHING. THE ONLY TIME THAT KERRY LEFT WAS AT 73 YEARS OLD TO GO INTO A BICYCLE LACE WHERE HE FELL AND BROKE HIS LEG, RIGHT. AND I ALWAYS TELL PEOPLE, I PROMISE YOU I WILL NEVER ENTER A BICYCLE RACE WHEN I'M IN THE MIDST OF AN IMPORTANT NUCLEAR NEGOTIATION, I PROMISE. I PROMISE. BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT, NUMBER ONE, WE SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN THEM BACK. AND THE OTHER THING, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER GIVEN THEM BACK THE $150 BILLION. AND I WOULD HAVE SAID VERY NICELY, MY FATHER USED TO THINK I WAS A LITTLE BIT ROUGH, AND HE USED TO GO, EASY, SON. SON, TAKE IT NICE AND EASY. YOU HAVE TO TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. HE HAD AN EXPRESSION. GOOD FATHER. WE ALL HAVE GREAT FATHERS, I HOPE. I HAD A GOOD FATHER. BUT I LEARNED A LOT. HE SAID, AND HE WOULD GO LIKE THIS THE LUMPS OUT. TAKE THE LUMPS. EASY. NICE AND EASY. TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. YOU'RE A LITTLE TOO ROUGH. WHAT DO YOU MEAN, POP? YOU'RE A LITTLE TOO ROUGH. AND OVER THE YEARS, I THINK I LEARNED THAT. MADE GREAT DEALS AND BUILT A GREAT COMPANY. GREAT COMPANY. TOOK ADVANTAGE OF EVERY SINGLE THING YOU CAN BECAUSE YOU ARE WORKING FOR YOURSELF AND FAMILIES AND YOUR EMPLOYEES AND TOOK ADVANTAGE OF THE LAWS, SOME OF THE LAWS ARE THE DUMBEST LAWS I'VE EVER SEEN AND SO STUPID BUT YOU TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THEM. YOU'RE LIKE A BUSINESS PERSON, RIGHT, GOT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THEM. BECAUSE YOU ARE REALLY REPRESENTING YOUR EMPLOYEES, YOUR COMPANY AND YOUR FAMILY. BUT MY FATHER WOULD SAY TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. SO HERE IS WHAT I WOULD HAVE SAID ON THE 150. IN THE OLD DAYS WHEN I'M YOUNG, I WOULD SAY WE'RE NOT PAYING YOU BACK THE 150 BILLION, YOU'RE NOT GETTING IT. AND THERE COULD BE A LOT OF HARD FEELING IN THE ROOM. TAKE A WHILE  —  THEY WILL STILL COME BACK, DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT. BECAUSE THEY NEED US. THEY NEED US. AND THEN I WOULD HAVE LEFT AND HERE GO THE SANCTIONS. I WOULD HAVE DONE TWO THINGS. NUMBER ONE, HOSTAGES BEFORE WE UTTER THE FIRST WORD. AND NUMBER TWO  —  AND HOW LONG WERE THE HOSTAGES THERE. THAT NEGOTIATION TOOK FOREVER AND WE DIDN'T WIN A POINT. WE LOST EVERYTHING. THEY'RE GOING TO BE A NUCLEAR POWER AND THEY ARE RICH AND POWERFUL. HOW ABOUT YEMEN. THEY ARE FIGHTING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF YEMEN. AND THEY'RE FIGHTING AND WEE FIGHTING. WHY DIDN'T THEY MAKE THE DEAL TO GET OUT OF YEMEN AND KERRY SAID BECAUSE HE DIDN'T WANT TO COME PLIBLG ATE  —  COMPLICATE THE NEGOTIATIONS. THEY DON'T WANT TO BRING SOMETHING ELSE TO COMPLICATE IT. THESE ARE AMATEURS. BUT MY FATHER WOULD SAY TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. SO HERE IS WHAT I WOULD SAY. WE WOULDN'T BE NEGOTIATING BECAUSE OUR PRISONERS WOULD HAVE BEEN BACK YEARS AGO. I WOULD HAVE SAID, LOOK, FELLAS, HERE IS THE STORY. WE HAVE A PROBLEM. OUR COUNTRY IS FLAT BROKE. WE OWE 19 TRILLION AND GOING TO BE 20 TRILLION OR $21 TRILLION WITH THE OMNIBUS VERY SOON. I WANT TO GIVE YOU THE MONEY BACK, I REALLY DO. WE DON'T HAVE IT, I'M SORRY. THEY WOULD HAVE GONE NUTS. THEY WOULD HAVE SAID, WHAT DO YOU MEAN YOU HAVE TO GIVE US  —  NO, NO, WE WANT TO. WE DON'T HAVE IT. I WANT TO SO BADLY. WE LOVE YOU. YOU'RE SUCH GREAT PEOPLE. SUCH NICE PEOPLE. SO KIND. TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT THEY DO TO THEIR HOSTAGE AND PRISONERS AND YOU'LL FIND OUT ABOUT TOUGH PEOPLE. GREAT NEGOTIATORS. PERSIANS, GREAT NEGOTIATORS. I WOULD HAVE SAID, REMEMBER, NICE AND EASY. I WOULD HAVE RATHER DONE IT MY WAY, BUT I RESPECTED MY FATHER. SO I WOULD HAVE SAID, WE DON'T HAVE THE MONEY, CAN'T DO IT. THEY WOULD HAVE LEFT AND WE WOULD HAVE LEFT AND WE WOULD HAVE BEEN BACK IN TWO WEEKS. WE WOULD HAVE SAVED $150 BILLION. SO THOSE TWO THINGS. WE WOULD HAVE HAD OUR HOSTAGES BACK AND SAVED $150 BILLION. NOW THEY ARE SO RICH, THEY ARE BUYING AIRLINERS, THEY ARE BUYING EVERYTHING. THEY ARE BUYING PROBABLY NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE JUST DON'T KNOW ABOUT IT, OKAY. WHAT THE HELL  —  DO YOU HAVE TO  —  NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT THEM MAKING NUCLEAR WEAPONS. THEY'LL BUY THEM. THEY HAVE THE MONEY. THEY MADE SUCH FOOLS OUT OF US. FOLKS, THOSE DAYS ARE OVER. THEY'RE OVER. THEY'RE OVER. I CALL OBAMA THE FIVE-FOR-ONE PRESIDENT. SO WE HAVE A TRADER NAMED SERGEANT BERGDAHL. SO SERGEANT BERGDAHL THINKS HE LIKES THEIR WAY OF LIFE, OBVIOUSLY. OH, THEY HAVE A WONDERFUL WAY OF LIFE. SO ONE DAY HE LEAVES. WE LOSE FIVE AND MAYBE SIX, BUT FIVE AT LEAST PEOPLE LOOKING FOR HIM. THEY WERE KILLED. THEY WERE KILLED BY THE ENEMY. THEY GO OUT THERE LOOKING FOR HIM. THEY KNEW HE LEFT. EVERYBODY WITH HIM KNEW HE LEFT BECAUSE HE WAS ALL WHACKED OUT AND A BELIEVER IN THEM, NOT US. SO THEY KNEW HE LEFT. SO KNOWING THAT, THE FACT THEY HAVE A COLONEL AND I BELIEVE A GENERAL TALKING TO THE PEOPLE THAT KNEW HIM, AND THEY TOLD THE COLONEL AND THE GENERAL THAT HE LEFT. HE DESERTED. REMEMBER THE OLD DAY, A DESERTER, WHAT HAPPENED? BANG. 20 YEARS AGO, IT WAS BANG, BUT SLOWLY. TEN YEARS AGO IT WAS LONG PRISON. TODAY THEY ARE PROBABLY TALKING ABOUT NOTHING. THAT IS WHERE WE'VE COME. BUT I CALL HIM THE FIVE-FOR-ONE. SO WE GET BERGDAHL, RIGHT, A TRADER. AND THEY GET FIVE OF THE MOST VICIOUS KILLERS THAT THEY HAVE, THAT THEY'VE BEEN AFTER FOR NINE YEARS TO GET THEM OUT AND THEY BRING THEM AND THEY ARE BACK ON THE BATTLEFIELD TRYING TO KILL EVERYBODY, INCLUDING US. THIS STUFF HAS GOT TO STOP, FOLKS. AND GITMO, WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. WE'RE GOING TO FILL IT UP. WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. AND I SEE HILLARY CLINTON SAID, I DO NOT LIKE DONALD TRUMP'S TONE. LOOK, HERE IS THE STORY. I THINK I HAVE A GREAT TEMPERAMENT. SHE USES THE WORD TEMPERAMENT BUT I LOVE WHEN SHE USES THE WORD TONE. THEY ARE CHOPPING HEADS OFF OF CHRISTIANS AND EVERYBODY ELSE. WE HAVEN'T SEEN THAT SINCE MEDIEVAL TIMES. YOU READ THE HISTORY BOOKS, THEY CHOPPED OFF HEADS. WELL, THEY ARE CHOPPING OFF HEADS. THEY ARE DROWNING PEOPLE IN STEEL CAGES, BY THE DOZENS, AT A TIME. AND SHE SAYS, WE DON'T LIKE HIS TONE. LET ME TELL YOU, FOLKS, IT IS TIME FOR A TOUGH TONE. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. SO WE'RE GOING TO DO THINGS THE SMART WAY. I REMEMBER DURING THE DEBATE THEY ASKED ONE OF THE FOLKS ON THE DEBUT STAGE WHO IS BECOMING FRIENDLIER AND FRIENDLIER BY THE DAY WITH ME, WHICH SOME OF THE PEOPLE ARE RECOVERING. IT WAS  —  I'LL TELL YOU WHAT. THEY SAY IT WAS THE NASTIEST PRIMARY THAT ANYBODY HAS SEEN. THEY SAY THE NASTIEST IN RECORDED HISTORY. WHO KNEW WHAT WENT ON BEFORE RECORDED. BUT IT WAS PRETTY NASTY. AND SOME OF THE FOLKS, I SAW ONE YESTERDAY, I WILL NOT EVEN MENTION NAMES BECAUSE I WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH EVERYBODY, RIGHT. I WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH THEM. EXCEPT FOR THE REAL ENEMY. BUT THEY'LL SIGN A DOCUMENT, ALL RIGHT, IT IS CALLED A PLEDGE. I PLEDGE  —  I PLEDGE, I SWEAR, I PLEDGE THAT IF I DON'T MAKE IT, I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THE NOMINEE OF THE PARTY. IT DOESN'T SAY, SUBJECT TO CHANGE, SUBJECT TO THE WEATHER, SUBJECT TO THE SUN DOESN'T COME UP. NO. IT SAID, I PLEDGE. AND FOR THAT PLEDGE, THEY GOT ACCESS TO MILLIONS OF DOLLARS WORTH OF MATERIAL FROM THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE, THE RNC. REINCE PRIEBUS, DOING A GREAT JOB. AND IF HE DOESN'T, I'LL TELL YOU. AND IF HE DOESN'T OVER THE NEXT FOUR OR FIVE WEEKS, I'LL TELL YOU. BUT THEY GOT ACCESS. SO THEY SIGNED A PLEDGE THEY WILL SUPPORT. I DON'T WANT THEIR SUPPORT. IT WON'T MEAN ONE VOTE THAN PERHAPS THEIR FAMILY. IT DOESN'T MEAN ANYTHING. BUT I SIGNED THE PLEDGE, TOO. AND EVERYBODY WANTED TO SIGN THE PLEDGE. AND THE REASON THEY SIGNED THE PLEDGE WAS TO GET ME TO SIGN IT. I SIGNED IT. I WOULD HAVE HONORED IT. I SAID PEOPLE SHOULD HONOR PLEDGES. PEOPLE SHOULD HONOR DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY SIGN THEM. YOU KNOW, NOT A BIG DEAL. NOT A BIG DEAL. BUT THEY SHOULD HONOR THEM. SO HERE IS THE STORY, FOLKS. WE'RE LOSING OUR COUNTRY. WE'RE LIKE A PIECE OF SWISS CHEESE AT THE BORDERS. THAT IS GOING TO END. THAT'S GOING TO END. YOU KNOW, THE BORDER PATROL AGENTS, 16,500, FIRST TIME IN HISTORY THEY'VE DONE THIS, THEY'VE NEVER DONE THIS BEFORE, 16,500 BORDER PATROL AGENTS HAVE ENDORSED DONALD TRUMP. THEY KNOW BETTER THAN ANYBODY WHAT IS GOING ON AT THE BORDER. AND BY THE WAY, IF AND WHEN WE WIN, IT IS WE  —  I'M JUST A MESSENGER FOLKS, I'M TELLING A MESSAGE OF COMMON STRENGTH BUT I'M JUST YOUR MESSENGER AND I'M DOING A GOOD JOB AS A MAEPGESSENGER, IN ALL FAIRNESS, BUT 16,500 BORDER PATROL AGENTS ENDORSED DONALD TRUMP AND WHAT THEY DO NOW IS STAND THERE WITH BEAUTIFUL EQUIPMENT, GREAT PEOPLE, PEOPLE WALK RIGHT BY THEM. THAT IS AN EASY JOB. THEY CAN'T STAND IT. BECAUSE THEY DON'T LIKE WHAT IS COMING INTO OUR COUNTRY. THEY WANT TO DO THEIR JOB. WITH ME, THEY'RE GOING TO BE WORKING REALLY HARD. AND I SAID TO THEM, WHEN THEY CALLED ME TO TELL ME ABOUT THE ENDORSEMENT, NEVER DONE IT BEFORE, THEY'VE NEVER ENDORSED A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BEFORE, 16,500, GREAT, GREAT PEOPLE AND I SAID TO THEM, SO LET ME TELL YOU, I WANT TO ASK YOU THIS QUESTION  —  HOW IMPORTANT IS THE WALL? THEY SAID, MR. TRUMP, THE WALL IS VITAL. I DON'T KNOW WHAT I WOULD HAVE DONE IF THEY SAID IT IS NOT IMPORTANT. I WOULD HAVE SAID, I GUESS WE'RE NOT BUILDING IT BECAUSE I RESPECT THESE PEOPLE, THEY KNOW BETTER THAN ANYBODY. THEY KNOW A HELL OF A LOT OF BETTER THAN CONSULTANTS AND PEOPLE MAKING A MILLIONS OF DOLLARS THAT DON'T HAVE A CLUE. WHO IS BETTER AT THAT? I SAID HOW IMPORTANT IS THE WALL? MR. TRUMP, NEVER FORGET THE ANSWER, THE WALL IS VITAL. IT IS VITAL. VERY IMPORTANT. VERY IMPORTANT. THEY ACTUALLY SAID IT IS A TOOL TOWARD REAL SECURITY, AN IMPORTANT TOOL. AND THEN I SPOKE WITH SHERIFF JOE ARPAIO FROM ARIZONA AND HE CALLED ME OUT OF THE BLUE AND I'VE READ ABOUT SHERIFF JOE, I MEAN, HE KNOWS BORDERS, RIGHT. AMAZING GUY. TOUGH GUY. BUT HE'S AN AMAZING GUY. AND HE SAID, MR. TRUMP, I JUST WANT TO YOU KNOW THAT I'M ENDORSING YOU BECAUSE YOU KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STUFF THAN ANYBODY, YOU KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STUFF THAN PEOPLE DOING IT FOR 25 YEARS. YOU GET IT. YOU KNOW WHAT IS HAPPENING. I'M ENDORSING YOU. AND HE'S ACTUALLY A QUALITY PERSON. HE'S A TOUGH GUY. BUT HE'S A QUALITY PERSON. HE GETS THE JOB DONE. AMAZING. SO I KNOW ABOUT THAT. AND WHEN IT WAS COMING TIME FOR THE WALL, I'LL NEVER FORGET, VICENTE FOX, ON ONE OF THE MAJOR NETWORKS, USED THE F-BOMB. REMEMBER AND I TOLD THIS STORY A COUPLE OF TIMES. HE SAID, WE WILL NOT PAY FOR THE F-BOMB WALL. AND I SAID, OH, HE'S DEAD. CAN YOU IMAGINE, HEADLINES TOMORROW. HE USED IT ON LIVE TELEVISION. AND I SAID, OH, I FEEL SO BADLY FOR THE GUY. AND NOW IN ONE WAY I WAS HAPPY. BECAUSE HE USED TO SAY, WE'LL NEVER BUILD THE WALL. NOW HE'S SAYING WE'LL NEVER PAY FOR THE WALL. SO WE MADE PROGRESS. ADD LEAST HE'S NOW ADMITTING IT IS GOING TO GET BUILT, RIGHT. AND HE SEEMS LIKE A NICE GUY BUT HE GOT A LITTLE BIT ROUGH. WE WILL NEVER PAY FOR THE  —  F-BOMB  —  WALL. I SAID OH, THE POOR GUY HE IS GOING TO GET KILLED IN THE PAPERS. NOBODY MENTIONED IT. CAN YOU IMAGINE IF I THREW OUT THE F-BOMB. I THINK IT WILL BE THE ELECTRIC CHAIR, RIGHT. WOULD IT BE THE ELECTRIC CHAIR. AND THE PRESS, I WILL TELL YOU  —  THE PEOPLE BACK THERE, AND I WILL TELL YOU THIS, NOT ALL OF THEM, BUT MANY OF THEM ARE THE MOST DISHONEST HUMAN BEINGS ON THE EARTH. THEY ARE THE MOST DISHONEST HUMAN BEINGS ON EARTH. I'VE HAD DAYS THAT ARE SO GOOD, AND THEN YOU WAKE UP THE NEXT MORNING AND YOU SAY, MAN, DID THEY TAKE THAT. I WON'T EVEN SAY WHAT THINGS  —  I COULD GO ONE AFTER ANOTHER. AND WE DON'T MAKE A LOT OF MISTAKES, ALL OF US, WE DON'T MAKE MISTAKES BUT WHAT THEY DO IS TAKE A SENTENCE AND MAKE IT MUCH DIFFERENT THAN WHAT YOU SAID, MUCH DIFFERENT FROM WHAT YOU MEANT. AND ALL OF A SUDDEN, THEY'LL SAY, DONALD TRUMP HAD A BAD WEEK BECAUSE HE SAID SOMETHING PERFECT. PERFECT. OKAY. PERFECT. I'M TELLING YOU, FOLKS, AND I TELL IT ALL OF THE TIME, BECAUSE AS A REPUBLICAN, AND AS A REPUBLICAN CONSERVATIVE, WE ARE AT A TREMENDOUS DISADVANTAGE. YOU LOOK AT THE WAY THEY TREAT CROOKED HILLARY, YOU TAKE A LOOK AT THIS COMPARED TO THE WAY THEY TREAT OTHER PEOPLE, OR THE WAY THEY TREAT ME, THEY ARE SOME OF THE WORST HUMAN BEINGS ON EARTH. I REALLY MEAN IT. I REALLY MEAN IT. YOU KNOW, WHERE ARE MY PROTESTS. I WANT SOME PROTESTERS. YOU KNOW, LOOK AT THIS ROOM. THE GOVERNOR JUST SAID HE'S NEVER SEEN A ROOM LIKE THIS IN INDIANA WITH THIS MANY PEOPLE. HE'S NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT. LOOK AT THIS THING. THIS IS WHERE YOUR FOOTBALL TEAM  —  LOOK AT THE CEILINGS. EVERYTHING IS NIGHT. I ALWAYS TALK ABOUT THE WALL IS GOING TO BE REALLY HIGH, BUT THAT IS REALLY HIGH UP THERE. THAT IS A BIG ONE. BUT YOU DON'T SEE CROWDS LIKE THIS. WE HAVE CROWDS LIKE THIS EVERYWHERE, NO MATTER WHERE WE GO. AND EVERY TIME I GO HOME AND MY WIFE SAYS HOW WAS THE CROWD. AND I ALWAYS SAY, DIDN'T YOU SEE IT? THEY KEEP THOSE CAMERAS ON MY FACE, THEY NEVER TAKE THE CAMERAS OFF MY FACE BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT PEOPLE  —  I WISH THEY WOULD TURN THE CAMERAS OVER HERE. TAKE A LOOK AT THIS CROWD. TAKE A LOOK AT THIS CROWD. LOOK, THE CAMERAS AREN'T MOVING. THEY ARE REALLY DISHONEST. I REALLY MEAN THIS. THEY ARE SO DISHONEST. THAT IS WHY I LOVE MY PROTESTERS. BECAUSE THE ONLY TIME THEY MOVE THE CAMERAS ARE WHEN WE HAVE A PROTEST. IF SOMEBODY WERE UP THERE SCREAMING OR SHOUTING, THE CAMERAS, WHICH I USED TO THINK WERE IN A FIXED POSITION, I SAID MAYBE MECHANICALLY THEY CAN'T MOVE, BUT WHEN WE HAVE A PROTESTER, THEY TURN AND  —  THEY ARE LIKE A PRETZEL ALL OVER THE PLACE. THROUGH THE CAMERAMAN'S LEGS, UP AROUND HIS ANKLES. YOU NEVER SAW CAMERAS MOVE LIKE THIS. THE FACT IS THAT YOU HAVE TO KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GETTING. AND THE SYSTEM IS WONDERFUL IN MANY WAYS, BUT REALLY BAD IN OTHERS. AND ONE OF THE WORST ASPECTS OF OUR SYSTEM IS THE DISHONEST PRESS. THE DISHONEST MEDIA IS ONE OF THE WORST THINGS. I REALLY MEAN IT. THEY WRITE AND SAY THINGS THAT ARE DISGRACEFUL. SO  —  AND I LIKE TO SAY, YOU KNOW WHAT, WHEN PEOPLE SEE OR READ OR HEAR THINGS, THEY'LL SAY, I'LL TELL YOU WHAT  —  ONE OF THE MOST INCREDIBLE  —  PEOPLE SAY WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED? I SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT I'VE LEARNED IS HOW SMART THE PEOPLE ARE. BECAUSE THEIR RATING IS SO LOW, THEY ARE SO  —  THOUGHT OF SO BADLY, IT IS LIKE HOW SMART THE PEOPLE WERE. AND I'LL SAY THIS. VARIOUS ANCHORS, SOME OF WHOM TRULY DISLIKE DONALD TRUMP HAVE SAID WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO US  —  TO US, I'M THE MESSENGER, YOU'RE THE IMPORTANT ONES IN THIS WHOLE THING, BUT WHAT HAPPENED TO US IS ONE OF THE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENONS THEY'VE EVER SEEN IN THE HISTORY OF THE COUNTRY. I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT. I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT. BILL O'REILLY, OF COURSE I'M ON HIS SHOW TONIGHT SO IF YOU GET HOME YOU WILL SEE THE SECOND EDITION. BUT BILL O'REILLY SAID, THE SINGLE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENON THAT HE'S SEEN IN HIS LIFETIME. NOW HE'S A PRO. A SMART GUY AND TOUGH. TOUGH. BUT THE SINGLE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENON THAT HE'S SEEN IN HIS LIFETIME IS DONALD TRUMP AND ALL OF US, THE WHOLE THING. WE'VE BEEN ON THE COVER  —  WE'VE BEEN ON THE COVER OF "TIME" MAGAZINE, SO MUCH THAT IT BECOMES ROUTINE. IN FACT, THEY JUST TOLD ME, MR. TRUMP, SIR, YOU'RE ON THE COVER OF "TIME" MAGAZINE AGAIN THIS WEEK. I SAID ALL RIGHT. IN THE OLD DAYS, I WOULD SAY THAT IS A BIG DEAL. AND NOW IT IS LIKE, REALLY, THAT IS GOOD, THAT IS ALL RIGHT. YOU'RE ON THE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE. I'M NOT ON THE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE. YOU'RE ON THE COVER. JUST REMEMBER THAT. SO WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS THAT ARE TAKING PLACE. WE HAVE A BADEN EMMY, WE HAVE AN ENEMY THAT IS DISHONEST AND A PRESS THAT IS DISHONEST. WE HAVE A GROUP OF PEOPLE THAT WANT TO GET ELECTED WHO HAVE A RIGGED SYSTEM AND WHO HAVE REALLY RIGGED THE SYSTEM TO A LARGE EXTENT. THEY'VE REALLY RIGGED THE SYSTEM. SAY WHAT YOU WANT ABOUT BERNIE SANDERS, BUT THE SUPER-DELEGATES, THAT WAS WORSE THAN WHAT HAPPENED WITH US. AND FRANKLY, THE ONLY REASON I COULD WIN IS WE WON IN SUCH LANDSLIDES ALL OVER THE PLACE, INCLUDING IN INDIANA. WHAT A LANDSLIDE THAT WAS. AND WE LOVE BOBBY KNIGHT. DO WE LOVE BOBBY KNIGHT. OH, THAT BOBBY KNIGHT. I LOVE MY BOBBY KNIGHT. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES, GENE AND DIGGER AND BOBBY. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES. LOU, LOU HOLTS. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES THAT CAME OUT IN OUR FAVOR. I DO WELL WITH COACHES. BUT THE COACHES LIKE ME. BUT BOBBY WAS OUT HERE WORKING REALLY HARD. AND I COULD SEE IT RIGHT AT THE BEGINNING. THIS WAS GOING TO BE THE WATER SHED. BUT BOBBY CAME OUT AND I CAME OUT AND WE WENT TO A RINAS  —  ARENA ARENAS, YOU'VE NEVER SEEN SO MANY PEOPLE. MAYBE YOU'VE BEEN AT SOME OF THE ARENAS. IT IS AMAZING. SO HERE IS THE STORY, FOLKS. WE HAVE TO STOP FOUR MORE YEARS OF OBAMA. WE'VE GOT TO STOP HILLARY CLINTON, WHO IS AS CROOKED AS THEY COME. WE'VE GOT TO BRING OUR COUNTRY BACK. WE HAVE TO MAKE GREAT TRADE DEALS AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE DEAL THAT'S BRING OUR JOBS BACK. AND WE'RE GOING TO GET ALONG GREAT WITH THESE COUNTRIES AND TRADE WITH THESE COUNTRIES. I AM NOT AN ISOLATIONIST, I'M A FREE TRADER. BUT I'M A FREE TRADE TORE MAKE GREAT DEAL  —  TRADE TORE MAKE GREAT DEALS, NOT TO MAKE HORRIBLE DEALS. ONE OF THE PEOPLE STANDING RIGHT THERE, SAID TO ME, MR. TRUMP, ARE YOU AN ISOLATIONIST, AND MR. TRUMP  —  AND I SAID NO. AND WHAT IS YOUR DEFINITION OF TRADE? AND I SAID VERY SIMPLE. I KNOW FREE AND I KNOW EVERY FORM OF TRADE KNOWN TO MANKIND. HERE IS MY DEFINITION OF TRADE. MY DEFINITION OF "TRADE" IS THAT I WANT TO MAKE GREAT DEALS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. YOU CAN CALL IT WHATEVER THE HELL YOU WANT. OKAY. AND WE'RE GOING TO. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR JOBS BACK. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR MANUFACTURING BACK. YOU LOOK AT WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE MANUFACTURING SINCE BILL CLINTON SIGNED PROBABLY THE WORST DEAL ECONOMICALLY IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY, NAFTA. THAT DEAL WAS SIGNED BY BILL CLINTON. YOU LOOK AT AREAS EVEN FROM HERE, BUT YOU LOOK AT PLACES, YOU LOOK AT PLACES LIKE NEW ENGLAND AND NEW YORK STATE AND PENNSYLVANIA, GREAT STATE  —  WE'RE LEADING IN PENNSYLVANIA BY THE WAY. IT JUST CAME OUT. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING IN FLORIDA. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING IN OHIO. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING ALL OVER THE PLACE. AND THE RASMUSSEN POLL JUST CAME OUT, WE'RE LEADING NASHLTIONALLY. BUT WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO. WE ARE DEALING WITH A DISHONEST SYSTEM AND A CROOKED SYSTEM AND A RIGGED SYSTEM SO WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO FOLKS, AND WE DON'T WANT ANYBODY TO TAKE IT AWAY FROM US. AND WHEN THIS PERSON SAID TO ME, BY THE WAY, WHAT YOU'VE DONE IS NEVER DONE BEFORE, CONGRATULATIONS, IT DOESN'T EVEN MATTER IF YOU WIN OR LOSE THE ELECTION, WHAT YOU'VE DONE HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE, WINNING ALL OF THE PRIMARIES, BEATING GREAT PROFESSIONALS AND THEY ARE VERY TALENTED PEOPLE, IT HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE, YOU WILL GO DOWN IN THE HISTORY BOOKS, MR. TRUMP. I SAID DO ME A FAVOR. DON'T EVEN TELL ME ABOUT IT. BECAUSE IF I DON'T WIN THE NEXT ONE, I WILL CONSIDER IT A BIG, FAT WASTE OF TIME AND $55 MILLION I PUT UP, AND I'M STILL PUTTING UP A LOT MORE. AND NOW WE RAISED $51 MILLION LAST MONTH AND WE STARTED TOWARD THE MIDDLE OF THE MONTH. AND EVERYONE WAS SHOCKED. AND MUCH OF THAT MONEY CAME IN SMALL DONATIONS LIKE $71 AVERAGE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT. AND I PUT UP MILLIONS. BUT I DID IT, LIKE, I WANT TO INCENTIVIZE PEOPLE AND I WANT PEOPLE TO REALIZE, I'M RAISING MONEY FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THE RNC. THAT IS WHAT WE WANT TO DO. BECAUSE WE WANT TO KEEP OUR MAJORITY. WE WANT TO KEEP OUR HOUSE. WE WANT TO KEEP OUR SENATE. BECAUSE I'LL TELL YOU WHAT, IF WE CAN DO THAT, AND WE HAVE TRUMP AS PRESIDENT, WE ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO DO THINGS THAT ARE GOING TO BE SO GREAT FOR OUR COUNTRY. GOING TO BE AMAZING. YOU KNOW, WE'RE RUN OF THE HIGHEST TAXED NATIONS IN THE WORLD. AND YET IN GOING AROUND AND MEETING WITH PEOPLE, SMALL BUSINESS PEOPLE, BIG BUSINESS PEOPLE, IF THEY HAD THEIR CHANCE, AND IF THEY HAD THEIR CHOICE, THEY WOULD RATHER GET RID OF RULES AND REGULATION  —  WE HAVE THE WORST REGULATIONS ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD. THEY ACTUALLY WOULD RATHER PAY MORE TAX, WHICH IS SURPRISING, AND GET RID OF THESE REGULATIONS THAT ARE CHOKING EVERYBODY. PEOPLE CAN'T RUN THEIR BUSINESSES. SO WE'RE GOING TO TURN THINGS AROUND. WE'RE GOING TO TURN THEM AROUND FAST. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LOSE CARRIER AIR-CONDITIONING FROM INDIANAPOLIS. YOU KNOW THAT DEAL VERY WELL. THOSE PEOPLE HAVE FOLLOWED ME ALL OVER THE PLACE. 1400 PEOPLE, OUT OF JOBS, VISUALLY THEIR MOVING TO MEXICO. ANY OF THE CARRIER FOLKS IN THIS ROOM? BECAUSE WE HAVE  —  WE HAVE A LOT  —  LOOK AT THAT. WHY ARE YOU IN THE BACK ROW. YOU SHOULD BE IN THE FRONT ROW. BUT WE HAD  —  DURING THE SEASON, WE HAD SO MANY OF THEM THAT FOLLOWED US AROUND. THEY FELT SO BADLY. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET THAT HAPPEN. PEOPLE AND COUNTRIES TAKE OUR COMPANIES AND TAKE OUR JOBS, THERE ARE GOING TO BE CONSEQUENCES. THEY WON'T TAKE THEM. BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET CARRIER COME IN AND MAKE AIR-CONDITIONERS IN MEXICO AND SELL THE AIR-CONDITIONERS TO US, ACROSS A VERY STRONG BORDER NOW, WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE. AND WHEN WE EXPLAIN TO THE HEADS OF CARRIER THAT HERE IS THE STORY, EITHER STAY OR IF YOU WANT TO GO TO MEXICO, WE WISH YOU A LOT OF LUCK BUT WHEN YOU SELL YOUR AIR-CONDITIONERS, YOU ARE GOING TO PAY A 35% TAX FOR THE AIR-CONDITIONERS TO COME ACROSS THE BORDER. AND YOU KNOW WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. THEY ARE NOT GOING TO MOVE. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO MOVE. THIS GOVERNMENT WAS THINKING ABOUT LOW INTEREST LOANS, ZERO INTEREST LOANS AND WAYS TO KEEP OUR KPZCOMPANIES. YOU DON'T NEED THAT. THEY DON'T NEED MONEY. THEY'RE MAKING PLENTY OF MONEY. BUT WE WON'T LET THEM JUST TAKE OUR COMPANIES OUT AND FIRE EVERYBODY. THESE ARE PEOPLE WITH CARRIER FOR MANY, MANY YEARS. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET IT HAPPEN. AND WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A COUNTRY THAT IS SO SMART AGAIN. SO HERE IS THETORY, FOLKS. WE DON'T WIN ANY MORE. WE'RE GOING TO START WINNING. WE'RE GOING TO WIN WITH OUR MILITARY. WE'RE GOING TO KICK THE HELL OUT OF ISIS. WE HAVE TO END IT. WE HAVE NO CHOICE. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETS. SO IMPORTANT. OUR VETS ARE BEING TREATED SO BADLY. I HAVE SUCH GREAT VETERAN SUPPORT. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETERANS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE STRONG BORDERS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THE WALL  —  OH, THAT WALL IS GOING TO BE AS BEAUTIFUL AS A WALL COULD BE. SOMEBODY SAID, MR. TRUMP, SIR, THEY'RE GOING TO CALL IT THE TRUMP WALL. I SAID, WELL THEN I BETTER BUILD IT BIG AND BEAUTIFUL, RIGHT. NO. NO, I DON'T WANT THAT. BUT WE NEED  —  WE NEED GREAT BORDERS. BECAUSE WITHOUT BORDERS, WE DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT TRADE DEALS. OUR JOBS ARE GOING TO COME BACK. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE A LOT OF MONEY ON TRADE. RIGHT NOW WE LOSE ALL OF THIS MONEY. YOU LOOK AT JAPAN, THE BIGGEST SHIPS YOU'VE EVER SEEN FLOATING IN, AND I WAS IN LOS ANGELES, THEY FLOAT IN THESE MASSIVE, MASSIVE SHIPS LOADED UP WITH CARS. AND THE CARS ARE POURING JUST LIKE  —  I MEAN, NASCAR. I LOVE NASCAR. I LOVE BRIAN FRANCE. HE ENDORSED ME FROM NASCAR, RIGHT. NASCAR. IT IS LIKE NASCAR DRIVERS. KING RICHARD ENDORSED ME. A LOT OF THE GUYS ENDORSED ME. RICHARD PETTY. THEY COME IN AND THEY ARE POURING OFF THESE BOATS. WE SEND THEM WHEAT. WE SEND THEM BEEF. AND WHEN IT GETS THERE, THEY DON'T EVEN WANT IT. THEY SEND IT BACK. YOU WANT TO SEE TRADE IMBALANCE, LOOK AT THE IMBALANCE WE HAVE WITH JAPAN. IT WILL END, FOLKS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE SMART PEOPLE NOW. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT DEALS AND FAIR DEALS AND GET ALONG GREAT WITH JAPAN. WE'RE GOING TO GET ALONG BETTER WITH THESE COUNTRIES AND THEY'RE GOING TO TREAT US FAIRLY. AND WE HAVE ALL OF THE CARDS. JUST REMEMBER THAT. WE'RE THE PIGGY BANK. BUT THEY ARE GOING TO BREAK OUR PIGGY BANK VERY SOON. BUT WITH THE PIGGY BANK, THEY TAKE THE MONEY OUT. WE HAVE REBUILT CHINA. THE MONEY THEY'VE TAKEN OUT OF THIS COUNTRY, I MEAN THEY HAVE TRAINS THAT CAN HE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. THEY HAVE HIGHWAYS THAT WE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. PLACES OUTSIDE OF THIS COUNTRY IN THE MIDDLE EAST, DIFFERENT PLACES HAVE AIRPORTS THAT WE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. WE USED TO BE AT THE TOP. NOW WE'RE LIKE A THIRD-WORLD COUNTRY. SO HERE IS WHAT I SAY. WE'RE GOING TO START WINNING AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO WIN SO MUCH. YOU'RE GOING TO BE SO PROUD OF YOUR COUNTRY. WE'RE GOING TO WIN SO MUCH. YOU'RE GOING TO BE SO HAPPY. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR JOBS BACK. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR PRIDE BACK. I OFTEN JOKE, YOU'LL BE CALLING UP MIKE PENCE, I DON'T KNOW WHETHER HE'S GOING TO BE YOUR GOVERNOR OR YOUR VICE PRESIDENT OR WHO THE HELL KNOWS. BUT YOU'RE GOING TO CALL UP  —  GOOD MAN. BUT YOU'RE GOING TO CALL HIM AND YOU COULD EITHER SAY, GOVERNOR, OR VICE PRESIDENT, SIR, PLEASE, PLEASE SPEAK TO MR. TRUMP. WE'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. WE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA, CANNOT STAND ALL OF THESE VICTORIES. WE CAN'T TAKE IT. WE'RE NOT USED TO IT. PLEASE, WE'RE WINNING WITH OUR MILITARY. WE'RE GOING TO BEAT ISIS. WE'RE WINNING ON TRADE. WE'RE WINNING AT THE BORDER. WE'RE STOPPING DRUGS FROM POURING IN. WE'RE WINNING ON EDUCATION. WE'RE WINNING WITH OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. PLEASE, PLEASE, MIKE, HELP US. WE'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. AND MIKE WILL COME TO SEE ME. AND SAY, MR. PRESIDENT, SIR, THEY'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA CAN'T STAND IT. I SAY, MIKE, GO BACK AND TELL THEM, WE'RE NOT CHANGING A DAMN THING. WE'RE GOING TO KEEP WINNING. AND WE'RE GOING TO WIN AT EVERY LEVEL. AND WE ARE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA SO GREAT AGAIN, WE'RE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA GREATER THAN EVER BEFORE. I LOVE YOU INDIANA. THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR HELP. YOU'RE REALLY SPECIAL PEOPLE. THANK YOU. WE LOVE YOU. THANK YOU VERY MUCH, EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
It is great to be here. I’d like to thank Alumisource and all the amazing workers here for hosting us. Today, I am going to talk about how to Make America Wealthy Again.
We are thirty miles from Steel City. Pittsburgh played a central role in building our nation.
The legacy of Pennsylvania steelworkers lives in the bridges, railways and skyscrapers that make up our great American landscape.
But our workers’ loyalty was repaid with betrayal.
Our politicians have aggressively pursued a policy of globalization – moving our jobs, our wealth and our factories to Mexico and overseas.
Globalization has made the financial elite who donate to politicians very wealthy. But it has left millions of our workers with nothing but poverty and heartache.
When subsidized foreign steel is dumped into our markets, threatening our factories, the politicians do nothing.
For years, they watched on the sidelines as our jobs vanished and our communities were plunged into depression-level unemployment.
Many of these areas have still never recovered.
Our politicians took away from the people their means of making a living and supporting their families.
Skilled craftsmen and tradespeople and factory workers have seen the jobs they loved shipped thousands of miles away.
Many Pennsylvania towns once thriving and humming are now in a state despair.
This wave of globalization has wiped out our middle class.
It doesn’t have to be this way. We can turn it all around – and we can turn it around fast.
But if we’re going to deliver real change, we’re going to have to reject the campaign of fear and intimidation being pushed by powerful corporations, media elites, and political dynasties.
The people who rigged the system for their benefit will do anything – and say anything – to keep things exactly as they are.
The people who rigged the system are supporting Hillary Clinton because they know as long as she is in charge nothing will ever change.
The inner cities will remain poor.
The factories will remain closed.
The borders will remain open.
The special interests will remain firmly in control.
Hillary Clinton and her friends in global finance want to scare America into thinking small – and they want to scare the American people out of voting for a better future.
READ: How Donald Trump Says He’d Win America’s Trade War
Top U.S. Labor Leader Blasts Donald Trump in Dueling Speeches
My campaign has the opposite message.
I want you to imagine how much better your life can be if we start believing in America again.
I want you to imagine how much better our future can be if we declare independence from the elites who’ve led us to one financial and foreign policy disaster after another.
Our friends in Britain recently voted to take back control of their economy, politics and borders.
I was on the right side of that issue – with the people – while Hillary, as always, stood with the elites, and both she and president Obama predicted that one wrong.
Now it’s time for the American people to take back their future.
That’s the choice we face. We can either give in to Hillary Clinton’s campaign of fear, or we can choose to Believe In America.
We lost our way when we stopped believing in our country.
America became the world’s dominant economy by becoming the world’s dominant producer.
The wealth this created was shared broadly, creating the biggest middle class the world had ever known.
But then America changed its policy from promoting development in America, to promoting development in other nations.
We allowed foreign countries to subsidize their goods, devalue their currencies, violate their agreements, and cheat in every way imaginable.
Trillions of our dollars and millions of our jobs flowed overseas as a result.
I have visited cities and towns across this country where a third or even half of manufacturing jobs have been wiped out in the last 20 years.
Today, we import nearly $800 billion more in goods than we export.
This is not some natural disaster. It is politician-made disaster.
It is the consequence of a leadership class that worships globalism over Americanism.
This is a direct affront to our Founding Fathers, who wanted America to be strong, independent and free.
Our Founding Fathers Understood Trade
George Washington said that "the promotion of domestic manufacturing will be among the first consequences to flow from an energetic government."
Alexander Hamilton spoke frequently of the "expediency of encouraging manufacturing in the United States." The first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned that: "The abandonment of the protective policy by the American government must produce want and ruin among our people."
Our original Constitution did not even have an income tax. Instead, it had tariffs – emphasizing taxation of foreign, not domestic, production.
Yet today, 240 years after the Revolution, we have turned things completely upside-down.
We tax and regulate and restrict our companies to death, then we allow foreign countries that cheat to export their goods to us tax-free.
As a result, we have become more dependent on foreign countries than ever before.
Ladies and Gentlemen, it’s time to declare our economic independence once again.
That means reversing two of the worst legacies of the Clinton years.
America has lost nearly one-third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997 – even as the country has increased its population by 50 million people.
At the center of this catastrophe are two trade deals pushed by Bill and Hillary Clinton.
First, the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. Second, China’s entry into the World Trade Organization.
NAFTA was the worst trade deal in history, and China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization has enabled the greatest jobs theft in history.
It was Bill Clinton who signed NAFTA in 1993, and Hillary Clinton who supported it.
It was also Bill Clinton who lobbied for China’s disastrous entry into the World Trade Organization, and Hillary Clinton who backed that terrible agreement.
Then, as Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton stood by idly while China cheated on its currency, added another trillion dollars to our trade deficits, and stole hundreds of billions of dollars in our intellectual property.
The city of Pittsburgh, and the State of Pennsylvania, have lost one-third of their manufacturing jobs since the Clintons put China into the WTO.
Fifty thousand factories across America have shut their doors in that time.
Almost half of our entire manufacturing trade deficit in goods with the world is the result of trade with China.
It was also Hillary Clinton, as Secretary of State, who shoved us into a job-killing deal with South Korea in 2012.
As reported by the Economic Policy Institute in May, this deal doubled our trade deficit with South Korea and destroyed nearly 100,000 American jobs.
As Bernie Sanders said, Hillary Clinton "Voted for virtually every trade agreement that has cost the workers of this country millions of jobs."
Trade reform, and the negotiation of great trade deals, is the quickest way to bring our jobs back.
To understand why trade reform creates jobs, we need to understand how all nations grow and prosper.
Massive trade deficits subtract directly from our Gross Domestic Product.
From 1947 to 2001 – a span of over five decades – our inflation-adjusted gross domestic product grew at a rate of 3.5%.
However, since 2002 – the year after we fully opened our markets to Chinese imports – that GDP growth rate has been cut almost in half.
What does this mean for Americans? For every one percent of GDP growth we fail to generate in any given year, we also fail to create over one million jobs.
America’s "job creation deficit" due to slower growth since 2002 is well over 20 million jobs – and that’s just about the number of jobs our country needs right now to put America back to work at decent wages.
The Transpacific-Partnership is the greatest danger yet.
The TPP would be the death blow for American manufacturing.
It would give up all of our economic leverage to an international commission that would put the interests of foreign countries above our own.
It would further open our markets to aggressive currency cheaters. It would make it easier for our trading competitors to ship cheap subsidized goods into U.S. markets – while allowing foreign countries to continue putting barriers in front of our exports.
The TPP would lower tariffs on foreign cars, while leaving in place the foreign practices that keep American cars from being sold overseas. The TPP even created a backdoor for China to supply car parts for automobiles made in Mexico.
The agreement would also force American workers to compete directly against workers from Vietnam, one of the lowest wage countries on Earth.
Not only will the TPP undermine our economy, but it will undermine our independence.
The TPP creates a new international commission that makes decisions the American people can’t veto.
These commissions are great Hillary Clinton’s Wall Street funders who can spend vast amounts of money to influence the outcomes.
It should be no surprise then that Hillary Clinton, according to Bloomberg, took a "leading part in drafting the Trans-Pacific Partnership".
She praised or pushed the TPP on 45 separate occasions, and even called it the "gold standard".
Hillary Clinton was totally for the TPP just a short while ago, but when she saw my stance, which is totally against, she was shamed into saying she would be against it too – but have no doubt, she will immediately approve it if it is put before her, guaranteed.
She will do this just as she has betrayed American workers for Wall Street throughout her career.
Here’s how it would go: she would make a small token change, declare the pact fixed, and ram it through.
That’s why Hillary is now only saying she has problems with the TPP "in its current form," – ensuring that she can rush to embrace it again at her earliest opportunity.
If the media doesn’t believe me, I have a challenge for you. Ask Hillary Clinton if she is willing to withdraw from the TPP her first day in office and unconditionally rule out its passage in any form.
There is no way to "fix" the TPP. We need bilateral trade deals. We do not need to enter into another massive international agreement that ties us up and binds us down.
A Trump Administration will change our failed trade policy – quickly
Here are 7 steps I would pursue right away to bring back our jobs.
One: I am going to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which has not yet been ratified.
Two: I’m going to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to fight on behalf of American workers.
Three: I’m going to direct the Secretary of Commerce to identify every violation of trade agreements a foreign country is currently using to harm our workers. I will then direct all appropriate agencies to use every tool under American and international law to end these abuses.
Four: I’m going tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal for our workers. And I don’t mean just a little bit better, I mean a lot better. If they do not agree to a renegotiation, then I will submit notice under Article 2205 of the NAFTA agreement that America intends to withdraw from the deal.
Five: I am going to instruct my Treasury Secretary to label China a currency manipulator. Any country that devalues their currency in order to take advantage of the United States will be met with sharply
Six: I am going to instruct the U.S. Trade Representative to bring trade cases against China, both in this country and at the WTO. China’s unfair subsidy behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance to the WTO, and I intend to enforce those rules.
Seven: If China does not stop its illegal activities, including its theft of American trade secrets, I will use every lawful presidential power to remedy trade disputes, including the application of tariffs consistent with Section 201 and 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 and Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962.
President Reagan deployed similar trade measures when motorcycle and semiconductor imports threatened U.S. industry. His tariff on Japanese motorcycles was 45% and his tariff to shield America’s semiconductor industry was 100%.
Hillary Clinton, and her campaign of fear, will try to spread the lie that these actions will start a trade war. She has it completely backwards.
Hillary Clinton unleashed a trade war against the American worker when she supported one terrible trade deal after another – from NAFTA to China to South Korea.
A Trump Administration will end that war by getting a fair deal for the American people.
The era of economic surrender will finally be over.
A new era of prosperity will finally begin.
America will be independent once more.
Under a Trump Presidency, the American worker will finally have a President who will protect them and fight for them.
We will stand up to trade cheating anywhere and everywhere it threatens an American job.
We will make America the best place in the world to start a business, hire workers, and open a factory.
This includes massive tax reform to lift the crushing burdens on American workers and businesses.
We will also get rid of wasteful rules and regulations which are destroying our job creation capacity.
Many people think that these regulations are an even greater impediment than the fact that we are one of the highest taxed nations in the world.
We are also going to fully capture America’s tremendous energy capacity. This will create vast profits for our workers and begin reducing our deficit. Hillary Clinton wants to shut down energy production and shut down the mines.
A Trump Administration will also ensure that we start using American steel for American infrastructure.
Just like the American steel from Pennsylvania that built the Empire State building.
It will be American steel that will fortify American’s crumbling bridges.
It will be American steel that sends our skyscrapers soaring into the sky.
It will be American steel that rebuilds our inner cities.
It will be American hands that remake this country, and it will be American energy – mined from American resources – that powers this country.
It will be American workers who are hired to do the job.
We are going to put American-produced steel back into the backbone of our country. This alone will create massive numbers of jobs.
On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy, we are going to put America First again.
We are going to make America wealthy again.
We are going to reject Hillary Clinton’s politics of fear, futility, and incompetence.
We are going to embrace the possibilities of change.
It is time to believe in the future.
It is time to believe in each other.
It is time to Believe In America.
This Is How We Are Going To Make America Great Again – For All Americans.
We Are Going To Make America Great Again For Everyone – Greater Than Ever Before.
Thank you.
Utah and Omaha beaches. Every coastguardsman is trusted to put service before all. Coasties plunge from helicopters and barrel through pouring rain and crashing waves to save American lives. They secure our borders from drug runners and terrorists in rough seas at high speeds. Their sharpshooters take out smuggler’s engines with a single shot. They never miss. When the red racing stripes of a coast guard vessel break the horizon, when their chopper blades pierce the sky, those in distress know that the help is on their way and our enemies know their time has come.
These guardians of our waters stand: Semper Paratus. They are always ready. They are the United States Coast Guard. Representing the Coast Guard today, you will soon see an HH60 Jayhawk helicopter based at Coast Guard Air Station Clearwater along with an HH65 Dolphin from Air Station Atlantic City and an HC144 Ocean Century from Air Station Miami.
Thank you. Thank you to the Coast Guard. On a cold December morning in 1903, a miracle occurred over the dunes of Kitty Hawk, North Carolina when two bicycle makers from Ohio defied gravity with a 12-horsepower engine, wings made of cotton and just a few dollars in their pockets. Just six years later, America was training its first pilots to take these magnificent machines up and over the field of battle. In World War I, our fly boys rushed the skies of Europe and aces like Eddie Rickenbacker filled hearts and headlines with tales of daring duels in the clouds. General Billy Mitchell saw the promise of this technology and risked court martial in his quest for an independent air force. He was proven right when empires across the oceans tried to carve up the world for themselves and America stood in the way. We wouldn’t let it happen.
After Pearl Harbor, Lieutenant Colonel James Doolittle and his Raiders flew B-25 bombers off a carrier deck in the deep Pacific in a daring feat of American resolve. And as President Roosevelt said, the Nazis built a fortress around Europe, but they forgot to put a roof on it. So we crushed them all from the air. 177 liberator bombers flew dangerously low through broad daylight without fighter protection to cripple the Nazi war machine. More than 300 airmEn gave their lives to destroy the enemy oil refineries and five pilots were awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for their actions in that single raid. It was airman, Chuck Yeager who first broke the sound barrier. It was airman like Gus Grissom and Buzz Aldrin, who traded their saber jets for rockets to the stars. And it is our incredible airmen today who wield the most powerful weapon systems on the planet Earth. For over 65 years, no enemy air force has managed to kill a single American soldier because the skies belong to the United States of America.
No enemy has attacked our people without being met by a roar of thunder. And the awesome might of those who bid farewell to Earth and soar into the wild blue yonder. They are the United States Air Force. Representing the Air Force, you will soon see beautiful brand new F-22 raptors from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia. And one magnificent B-2 stealth bomber from Whiteman Air Force Base in Missouri.
What a great country. In October of 1775, the Continental Congress ordered the construction of two swift sailing vessels, each carrying 10 cannons and 80 men to sail eastward. Our young fleet tested their sea legs against the most powerful navy the world has ever seen. John Paul Jones, America’s first great naval hero, said "I wish to have no connection with any ship that does not sail fast, for I intend to go in harm’s way." He got his wish many times when his ship was shot into pieces off the coast of England by a British vessel and her four dozen guns. When demanded to surrender, Jones very famously declared I have not yet begun to fight.
When our navy begins fighting, they finish the job. The war of 1812, Captain James Lawrence fell with his brothers on the USS Chesapeake. His dying command gained immortality. "Don’t give up the ship." In the battle of Mobile Bay, Admiral David Farragut lashed himself to the rigging of his flagship to see beyond the cannon smoke crying, "Damn the torpedoes. Full speed ahead." In World War II, it was aviators launched from the carrier Enterprise, Hornet, Yorktown, who filled the skies of Midway and turned the tide of the Pacific War. Nobody could beat us. Nobody could come close. On D-Day, CB engineers came ashore to destroy blockades and barriers making way for the invasion. Many lost their lives, but they took the German defenses with them and our men crushed upon the beaches like a mighty storm. From the naval demolition units of World War II arose a force that became famous in the Kang Delta. They don’t want to see our force again. The very best of the very best, the Navy Seals.
It was the Seals who delivered vengeance on the terrorists who planned the September 11th attack on our homeland. It was the Seals who stand ready to bring righteous retribution in mountain jungle desert to those who do us harm. America sailors are not born. They are forged by the sea. Their traditions are rich with the salt and blood of three centuries. When old Laurie crest the waves of foreign shores, every friend and every foe knows that justice sails those waters. It sails with the United States Navy. Representing our great Navy today will be two F-18 Super Hornets from Naval Air Station Oceana in Virginia, along with two F-35 Lightnings from Naval Air Station Lemoore in California.
So great. In November of 1775, the Continental Congress created two battalions of a new kind of warrior. One who kept and would protect our ships and sailors and be at home, both ashore and in the mast with musket in hand. Their versatility was proven in the War of Independence when 234 continental marines conducted their first amphibious raid, capturing the British supply of gunpowder and cannons at Fort Nassau. Ever since, Marines have fought in every American war. Their legend has grown and grown and grown with each passing year. It was the Marines who won America’s first overseas battle, vanquishing Barbary pirates on the shores of Tripoli. Their high stiff collar, which shielded them from the pirate sword, earned them the immortal name Leatherneck. It was the Marines, who after two long days of battle, march through the halls of Montezuma. It was the Marines who took heavy casualties to kick the Kaiser’s troops out of Belleau Wood in World War One, earning the title Devil Dogs. And it was the Marines who raised the flag on the black sands of Iwo Jima. From the Chosin Reservoir to Kaesong, from Helmond to Baghdad, Marines have struck fear into the hearts of our enemies and put solace into the hearts of our friends. Marines always lead the way. After the 1983 Marine barracks bombing in Beirut, which claimed the lives of 241 great US servicemen, Marine Sergeant Jeffery Nashton lay in bandages so badly wounded, barely alive. When the commandant of the Marine Corps came to visit his hospital, Sergeant Nashton had to feel for the general’s collar. He wanted to feel his four stars. He could not see and he could not speak. He signaled for pen and paper. And with shaking hand, he wrote two words: Semper Fi. That motto, Semper Fidelis, always faithful, burns in the soul of every Marine a sacred promise the core has kept since the birth of our country. They are the elite masters of air and land and sea on battlefields all across the globe. They are the United States 
All across the globe. They are the United States Marines.
Representing the Marine Corps today will be a brand new VH-92, soon to serve as Marine One, along with two V-22 Ospreys from the famed HMX-1 helicopter squadron at Quantico, the Night Hawks.
(singing)
In June of 1775, the Continental Congress created a unified army out of the revolutionary forces encamped around Boston and New York and named after the great George Washington, commander-in-chief. The Continental Army suffered a bitter winter of Valley Forge, found glory across the waters of the Delaware, and seized victory from Cornwallis of Yorktown.
Our army manned the ramparts. It took over the airports. It did everything it had to do. And at Fort McHenry, under the rockets’ red glare, it had nothing but victory. And when dawn came, their star-spangled banner waved defiant. At Shiloh, Antietam, and Gettysburg, our soldiers gave the last full measure of devotion for the true unity of our nation and the freedom of all Americans.
In the trenches of World War One, an army sergeant named Alvin York, faced an inferno of enemy fire and refused to retreat. He said, "I won’t leave. I won’t stop." He shot his rifle 18 times, killing 18 of the enemy. When they fixed bayonets and charged, he killed seven more. The entire German machine gun battalion surrendered because of one man, Alvin York.
A generation later, the Army returned to Europe and embarked upon a great crusade with knives and rifles in hand. The Rangers scaled the cliffs of Normandy. The 101st Airborne leapt into the danger from above, illuminated only by enemy flares, explosions, and burning aircraft. They threw back the Nazi Empire with lightning of their own from the turrets of Sherman tanks and the barrels of the M1 rifle. In the darkness of the Battle of the Bulge, with Nazis on every side, one soldier is reported to have said, "They’ve got us surrounded again, the poor bastards." Yes. Outnumbered, American warriors fought through the bunkers of Pork Chop Hill and held the line of civilization in Korea. In the elephant grass of Vietnam, the first cavalry made its stand amid a forest consumed in flame with enemies at every single turn. The army brought America’s righteous fury down to Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and cleared the bloodthirsty killers from their caves. They liberated Fallujah and Mosul and helped liberate and obliterate the ISIS caliphate just recently in Syria, 100% gone. Through centuries, our soldiers have always pointed toward home proclaiming, "This we’ll defend." They live by the creed of Douglas MacArthur. "In war, there is no substitute for victory." They are the greatest soldiers on Earth.
(singing)
Nearly 250 years ago, a volunteer army of farmers and shopkeepers, blacksmiths, merchants, and militiamen risked life and limb to secure American liberty and self-government. This evening, we have witnessed the noble might of the warriors who continue that legacy. They guard our birthright with vigilance and fierce devotion to the flag and to our great country. Now we must go forward as a nation with that same unity of purpose. As long as we stay true to our course, as long as we remember our great history, as long as we never ever stop fighting for a better future, then there will be nothing that America cannot do.
Thank you. We will always be the people who defeated a tyrant, crossed a continent, harnessed science, took to the skies, and soared into the heavens, because we will never forget that we are Americans, and the future belongs to us.
The future belongs to the brave, the strong, the proud, and the free. We are one people chasing one dream and one magnificent destiny. We all share the same heroes, the same home, the same heart, and we are all made by the same Almighty God.
From the banks of the Chesapeake to the cliffs of California, from the humming shores of the Great Lakes to the sand dunes of the Carolinas, from the fields of the heartland to the Everglades of Florida, the spirit of American independence will never fade, never fail, but will reign forever and ever and ever.
So once more, to every citizen throughout our land, have a glorious Independence Day. Have a great Fourth of July. I want to thank the Army Band, the National Park Service, the Interior Department, the incredible pilots overhead, and those who are making possible the amazing fireworks display later this evening. Now as the band plays the Battle Hymn of the Republic, I invite the First Lady, Vice President and Mrs. Pence, the service secretaries, and military leaders to join me on stage for one more salute to America by the famous, incredible, talented Blue Angels. God Bless you, God bless the military, and God bless America. Happy Fourth of July.
(singing)
You know and I moved on her, actually. You know, she was down on Palm Beach. I moved on her, and I failed. I'll admit it. I did try and fuck her. She was married. No, no, Nancy. No, this was — and I moved on her very heavily. In fact, I took her out furniture shopping. She wanted to get some furniture. I said, "I'll show you where they have some nice furniture." I took her out furniture — I moved on her like a bitch. But I couldn't get there. And she was married. Then all of a sudden I see her, she's now got the big phony tits and everything. She's totally changed her look. Whoa! Whoa! Look at you, you are a pussy. All right, you and I will walk out. Maybe it's a different one. Yeah, that's her. With the gold. I better use some Tic Tacs just in case I start kissing her. You know, I'm automatically attracted to beautiful, I just start kissing them. It's like a magnet. Just kiss. I don't even wait. And when you're a star, they let you do it. You can do anything. Grab 'em by the pussy. You can do anything. Oh, it looks good. Ooh, nice legs, huh? It's always good if you don't fall out of the bus. Like Ford, Gerald Ford, remember? Hello, how are you? Hi! Nice seeing you. Terrific, terrific. You know Billy Bush? We're ready, let's go. Make me a soap star. O.K., absolutely. Melania said this was O.K. Good. After you. Come on, Billy, don't be shy. Get over here, Billy. Good, that's better. That's better. I don't know, that's tough competition. Which way? O.K. O.K. Oh, you're finished? Oh, good.
We the citizens of America are now joined in a great national effort to rebuild our country and restore its promise for all of our people. Together we will determine the course of America, and the world, for many, many years to come. We will face challenges, we will confront hardships, but we will get the job done.
Every four years we gather on these steps to carry out the orderly and peaceful transfer of power. We are grateful to President Obama and Michelle Obama. They have been magnificent.
Today's ceremony however has very special meaning, because today we are not merely transferring power from one administration to the other, but from Washington, D. C. and giving it back to you, the people. For too long, a small group in our nation's Capitol has reaped the rewards of government while the people have born the cost. Washington has flourished, but the people did not share in its wealth. The establishment protected itself, but not the citizens of our country. Their victories have not been your victories. Their triumphs have not been your triumphs. There was little to celebrate for struggling families all across our land. That all changes starting right here and right now. This moment is your moment, it belongs to you. It belongs to everyone gathered here today and everyone watching all across America. This is your country. What truly matters is not which party controls our government, but whether our government is controlled by the people. January 20th, 2017 will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again. The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer. Everyone is listening to you now. You came by the tens of millions to become part of a historic movement. The likes of what this country has never seen before. At the center of this movement is a crucial conviction that the nation exists to serve its people. These are just and reasonable demands of righteous people in a righteous public. But, for too many of our citizens, a different reality exist. This American carnage stops right here and stops right now. We are one nation, and their pain is our pain. Their dreams are our dreams. Their success will be our success. We share one heart, one home, and one glorious destiny. The oath of office I take today is an oath of allegiance to all Americans. The wealth of our middle class has been ripped from their homes and then redistributed all across the world. But that is the past. And now we are looking only to the future. We, assembled here today, are issuing a new decree to be heard in every city: from this day forward, a new vision will govern our land. From this day forward, it's going to be only America first. America first. Every decision on trade, on taxes, immigration, foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers and American families. We must protect our borders.
Protection will lead to great prosperity and strength. I will never, ever let you down. America will start winning again winning like never before. We will bring back our jobs, our borders, our wealth, our dreams. We will build new roads, bridges, airports and highways all across the nation. We will get people off of welfare. We will follow two simple rules: buy American and hire American. We will seek friendship and goodwill with the nations of the world, but we do so with the understanding that is the right of all nations to put their own notions first.
At the bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to the United States of America. Through our loyalty to our country, we will rediscover our loyalty to each other. When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice.
The Bible tells us how good and pleasant it is when God's people live together in unity. We must speak our minds openly, debate our minds honestly, but always pursue solidarity. When America is united, America is totally unstoppable. There should be no fear. We are protected, and we will always be protected.
Most importantly, we will be protected by God.
Finally, we must think big and dream even bigger. In America, we understand that a nation is only living as long as it is striving. We will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no action. The time for empty talk is over. Now arrives the hour of action. No challenge can match the heart and fight of America. We will not fail. Our country will thrive and prosper again.
No matter if we are black, brown or white, we all bleed the red blood of patriots. We all enjoy the same freedoms and we all salute the same great American flag.
To Americans: You will never be ignored again. Your voice, your hopes and your dreams will define our American destiny. Your courage and goodness and love will forever guide us along the way. Together we will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And yes, together, we will make America great again.
Well, I want to thank everybody. Very, very special people. And it is true, this is my first stop, officially. We're not talking about the balls, or we're not talking about even the speeches although they did treat me nicely on that speech yesterday. I always call them the dishonest media, but they treated me nicely.
But I want to say that there is nobody that feels stronger about the intelligence community and the CIA than Donald Trump. There's nobody.
The wall behind me is very, very special. We've been touring for quite a while, and I'll tell you what 29? I can't believe it. Oh, 28. We got to reduce it. That's amazing. And we really appreciate what you've done in terms of showing us something very special. And your whole group, these are really special, amazing people. Very, very few people could do the job you people do. And I want to just let you know, I am so behind you. And I know maybe sometimes you haven't gotten the backing that you've wanted, and you're going to get so much backing. Maybe you're going to say, please don't give us so much backing. Mr. President, please, we don't need that much backing. But you're going to have that. And I think everybody in this room knows it.
You know, the military and the law enforcement, generally speaking, but all of it but the military gave us tremendous percentages of votes. We were unbelievably successful in the election with getting the vote of the military. And probably almost everybody in this room voted for me, but I will not ask you to raise your hands if you did. But I would guarantee a big portion, because we're all on the same wavelength, folks. We're all on the same wavelength, right? He knows. It took Brian about 30 seconds to figure that one out, right, because we know we're on the same wavelength.
But we're going to do great things. We're going to do great things. We've been fighting these wars for longer than any wars we've ever fought. We have not used the real abilities that we have. We've been restrained. We have to get rid of ISIS. Have to get rid of ISIS. We have no choice. Radical Islamic terrorism. And I said it yesterday it has to be eradicated just off the face of the Earth. This is evil. This is evil. And you know, I can understand the other side. We can all understand the other side. There can be wars between countries, there can be wars. You can understand what happened. This is something nobody can even understand. This is a level of evil that we haven't seen. And you're going to go to it, and you're going to do a phenomenal job. But we're going to end it. It's time. It's time right now to end it.
You have somebody coming on who is extraordinary. For the different positions of "Secretary of This" and "Secretary of That" and all of these great positions, I'd see five, six, seven, eight people. And we had a great transition. We had an amazing team of talent. And, by the way, General Flynn is right over here. Put up your hand. What a good guy. And Reince and my whole group. Reince you know they don't care about Reince. He's like this political guy that turned out to be a superstar, right? We don't have to talk about Reince.
But we did we had such a tremendous, tremendous success. So when I'm interviewing all of these candidates that Reince and his whole group is putting in front, it went very, very quickly, and, in this case, went so quickly because I would see six or seven or eight for Secretary of Agriculture, who we just named the other day, Sonny Perdue, former governor of Georgia. Fantastic guy. But I'd see six, seven, eight people for a certain position. Everybody wanted it.
But I met Mike Pompeo, and it was the only guy I met. I didn't want to meet anybody else. I said, cancel everybody else. Cancel. Now, he was approved, essentially, but they're doing little political games with me. He was one of the three. Now, last night, as you know, General Mattis, fantastic guy, and General Kelly got approved. And Mike Pompeo was supposed to be in that group. It was going to be the three of them. Can you imagine all of these guys? People respect you know, they respect that military sense. All my political people, they're not doing so well. The political people aren't doing so well but you. We're going to get them all through, but some will take a little bit longer than others.
But Mike was literally I had a group of what, we had nine different people? Now, I must say, I didn't mind cancelling eight appointments. That wasn't the worst thing in the world. But I met him and I said, he is so good. Number one in his class at West Point.
Now, I know a lot about West Point. I'm a person that very strongly believes in academics. In fact, every time I say I had an uncle who was a great professor at MIT for 35 years who did a fantastic job in so many different ways, academically was an academic genius and then they say, is Donald Trump an intellectual? Trust me, I'm like a smart persona. And I recognized immediately. So he was number one at West Point, and he was also essentially number one at Harvard Law School. And then he decided to go into the military. And he ran for Congress. And everything he's done has been a homerun. People like him, but much more importantly to me, everybody respects him. And when I told Paul Ryan that I wanted to do this, I would say he may be the only person that was not totally thrilled right, Mike? Because he said, I don't want to lose this guy.
But you will be getting a total star. You're going to be getting a total gem. He's a gem. You'll see. You'll see. And many of you know him anyway. But you're going to see. And again, we have some great people going in. But this one is something is going to be very special, because this is one, if I had to name the most important, this would certainly be perhaps you know, in certain ways, you could say my most important. You do the job like everybody in this room is capable of doing. And the generals are wonderful, and the fighting is wonderful. But if you give them the right direction, boy, does the fighting become easier. And, boy, do we lose so fewer lives, and win so quickly. And that's what we have to do. We have to start winning again.
You know, when I was young and when I was of course, I feel young. I feel like I'm 30, 35, 39. Somebody said, are you young? I said, I think I'm young. You know, I was stopping when we were in the final month of that campaign, four stops, five stops, seven stops. Speeches, speeches, in front of 25,000, 30,000 people, 15,000, 19,000 from stop to stop. I feel young.
When I was young and I think we're all sort of young. When I was young, we were always winning things in this country. We'd win with trade. We'd win with wars. At a certain age, I remember hearing from one of my instructors, "The United States has never lost a war." And then, after that, it's like we haven't won anything. We don't win anymore. The old expression, "to the victor belong the spoils" you remember. I always used to say, keep the oil. I wasn't a fan of Iraq. I didn't want to go into Iraq. But I will tell you, when we were in, we got out wrong. And I always said, in addition to that, keep the oil. Now, I said it for economic reasons. But if you think about it, Mike, if we kept the oil you probably wouldn't have ISIS because that's where they made their money in the first place. So we should have kept the oil. But okay. Maybe you'll have another chance. But the fact is, should have kept the oil.
I believe that this group is going to be one of the most important groups in this country toward making us safe, toward making us winners again, toward ending all of the problems. We have so many problems that are interrelated that we don't even think of, but interrelated to the kind of havoc and fear that this sick group of people has caused. So I can only say that I am with you 1,000 percent.
And the reason you're my first stop is that, as you know, I have a running war with the media. They are among the most dishonest human beings on Earth. And they sort of made it sound like I had a feud with the intelligence community. And I just want to let you know, the reason you're the number-one stop is exactly the opposite exactly. And they understand that, too.
And I was explaining about the numbers. We did a thing yesterday at the speech. Did everybody like the speech? I've been given good reviews. But we had a massive field of people. You saw them. Packed. I get up this morning, I turn on one of the networks, and they show an empty field. I say, wait a minute, I made a speech. I looked out, the field was it looked like a million, million and a half people. They showed a field where there were practically nobody standing there. And they said, Donald Trump did not draw well. I said, it was almost raining, the rain should have scared them away, but God looked down and he said, we're not going to let it rain on your speech.
In fact, when I first started, I said, oh, no. The first line, I got hit by a couple of drops. And I said, oh, this is too bad, but we'll go right through it. But the truth is that it stopped immediately. It was amazing. And then it became really sunny. And then I walked off and it poured right after I left. It poured. But, you know, we have something that's amazing because we had it looked honestly, it looked like a million and a half people. Whatever it was, it was. But it went all the way back to the Washington Monument. And I turn on and by mistake I get this network, and it showed an empty field. And it said we drew 250,000 people. Now, that's not bad, but it's a lie. We had 250,000 people literally around you know, in the little bowl that we constructed. That was 250,000 people. The rest of the 20-block area, all the way back to the Washington Monument, was packed. So we caught them, and we caught them in a beauty. And I think they're going to pay a big price.
We had another one yesterday, which was interesting. In the Oval Office there's a beautiful statue of Dr. Martin Luther King. And I also happen to like Churchill, Winston Churchill. I think most of us like Churchill. He doesn't come from our country, but had a lot to do with it. Helped us; real ally. And, as you know, the Churchill statue was taken out the bust. And as you also probably have read, the Prime Minister is coming over to our country very shortly. And they wanted to know whether or not I'd like it back. I say, absolutely, but in the meantime we have a bust of Churchill.
So a reporter for Time magazine and I have been on there cover, like, 14 or 15 times. I think we have the all-time record in the history of Time Magazine. Like, if Tom Brady is on the cover, it's one time, because he won the Super Bowl or something, right? I've been on it for 15 times this year. I don't think that's a record, Mike, that can ever be broken. Do you agree with that? What do you think?
But I will say that they said it was very interesting that Donald Trump took down the bust, the statue, of Dr. Martin Luther King. And it was right there. But there was a cameraman that was in front of it. So Zeke Zeke from Time Magazine writes a story about I took down. I would never do that because I have great respect for Dr. Martin Luther King. But this is how dishonest the media is.
Now, the big story the retraction was, like, where? Was it a line? Or do they even bother putting it in? So I only like to say that because I love honesty. I like honest reporting.
I will tell you, final time although I will say it, when you let in your thousands of other people that have been trying to come in because I am coming back we're going to have to get you a larger room. We may have to get you a larger room. You know? And maybe, maybe, it will be built by somebody that knows how to build, and we won't have columns. You understand that? We get rid of the columns.
No, I just wanted to really say that I love you, I respect you. There's nobody I respect more. You're going to do a fantastic job. And we're going to start winning again, and you're going to be leading the charge.
So thank you all very much. Thank you you're beautiful. Thank you all very much. Have a good time. I'll be back. I'll be back. Thank you.
Well, the election, it came out really well. Next time we'll triple the number or quadruple it. We want to get it over 51, right? At least 51.
Well this is Black History Month, so this is our little breakfast, our little get-together. Hi Lynn, how are you? Just a few notes. During this month, we honor the tremendous history of African-Americans throughout our country. Throughout the world, if you really think about it, right? And their story is one of unimaginable sacrifice, hard work, and faith in America. I've gotten a real glimpse. During the campaign, I'd go around with Ben to a lot of different places I wasn't so familiar with. They're incredible people. And I want to thank Ben Carson, who's gonna be heading up HUD. That's a big job. That's a job that's not only housing, but it's mind and spirit. Right, Ben? And you understand, nobody's gonna be better than Ben.
Last month, we celebrated the life of Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., whose incredible example is unique in American history. You read all about Dr. Martin Luther King a week ago when somebody said I took the statue out of my office. It turned out that that was fake news. Fake news. The statue is cherished, it's one of the favorite things in the — and we have some good ones. We have Lincoln, and we have Jefferson, and we have Dr. Martin Luther King. But they said the statue, the bust of Martin Luther King, was taken out of the office. And it was never even touched. So I think it was a disgrace, but that's the way the press is. Very unfortunate.
I am very proud now that we have a museum on the National Mall where people can learn about Reverend King, so many other things. Frederick Douglass is an example of somebody who's done an amazing job and is being recognized more and more, I noticed. Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks, and millions more black Americans who made America what it is today. Big impact.
I'm proud to honor this heritage and will be honoring it more and more. The folks at the table in almost all cases have been great friends and supporters. Darrell — I met Darrell when he was defending me on television. And the people that were on the other side of the argument didn't have a chance, right? And Paris has done an amazing job in a very hostile CNN community. He's all by himself. You'll have seven people, and Paris. And I'll take Paris over the seven. But I don't watch CNN, so I don't get to see you as much as I used to. I don't like watching fake news. But Fox has treated me very nice. Wherever Fox is, thank you.
We're gonna need better schools and we need them soon. We need more jobs, we need better wages, a lot better wages. We're gonna work very hard on the inner city. Ben is gonna be doing that, big league. That's one of the big things that you're gonna be looking at. We need safer communities and we're going to do that with law enforcement. We're gonna make it safe. We're gonna make it much better than it is right now. Right now it's terrible, and I saw you talking about it the other night, Paris, on something else that was really — you did a fantastic job the other night on a very unrelated show.
I'm ready to do my part, and I will say this: We're gonna work together. This is a great group, this is a group that's been so special to me. You really helped me a lot. If you remember I wasn't going to do well with the African-American community, and after they heard me speaking and talking about the inner city and lots of other things, we ended up getting — and I won't go into details — but we ended up getting substantially more than other candidates who had run in the past years. And now we're gonna take that to new levels. I want to thank my television star over here — Omarosa's actually a very nice person, nobody knows that. I don't want to destroy her reputation but she's a very good person, and she's been helpful right from the beginning of the campaign, and I appreciate it. I really do. Very special.
So I want to thank everybody for being here.
Thank you, everybody, thank you. I didn't know that Melania was going to be saying the Lord's Prayer, but I thought that was very beautiful, thank you, thank you.
It's so great to be here in Florida. My second home with you. This is a state I truly love. This is a state where we all had great victory together. Thank you.
It's now been a month since my inauguration. And I am here to tell you about our incredible progress in making America great again. I'm also here to tell you about our plans for the future and they're big and they're bold and It's what our country is all about, believe me.
I'm here because I want to be among my friends and among the people. This was a great movement, a movement like has never been seen before in our country our probably anywhere else. This was a truly great movement And I want to be here with you, and I will always be with you. I promise you that. I want to be in a room filled with hard working American patriots who love their country, who salute their flag and who pray for a better future.
I also want to speak to you without the filter of the fake news. The dishonest media which has published one false story after another with no sources, even though they pretend they have them, they make them up in many cases, they just don't want to report the truth and they've been calling us wrong now for two years. They don't get it. By they're starting to get it. I can tell you that. They've become a big part of the problem. They are part of the corrupt system. Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, and Abraham Lincoln and many of our greatest presidents fought with the media and called them out often times on their lies. When the media lies to people, I will never, ever let them get away with it. I will do whatever I can that. They don't get away with it.
They have their own agenda and their agenda is not your agenda. In fact, Thomas Jefferson said, "nothing can be believed which is seen in a newspaper." "Truth itself," he said, "becomes suspicious by being put into that polluted vehicle," that was June 14, my birthday, 1807. But despite all their lies, misrepresentations, and false stories, they could not defeat us in the primaries, and they could not defeat us in the general election, and we will continue to expose them for what they are, and most importantly, we will continue to win, win, win.
We are not going to let the fake news tell us what to do, how to live, or what to believe. We are free and independent people and we will make our own choices.
We are here today to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. I hear your demands, I hear your voices and I promise you I will deliver. I promise that. And by the way, you've seen what we've accomplished in a very short period of time. The White House is running so smoothly. So smoothly. And believe me, I and we inherited one big mess. That I can tell you, but I know that you want safe neighborhoods where the streets belong to families and communities, not gang members and drug dealers who are right now as I speak being thrown out of the country and they will not be let back in.
We will have strong borders again, and I mean that. You've seen it in television. You've seen it on television. General Kelly, now Secretary Kelly, he's really doing the job. You're seeing it. The gang members, bad, bad people. I said day one, and they're going out. Or they're being put in prison, but for the most part, get them the hell out of here. Bring them back to where they came from.
The fact is, you want great schools for your children. You want good high paying jobs for yourselves and for your loved ones and for the future of your families. You want a health care system and by the way, we are going to be submitting in a couple of weeks a great healthcare plan that's going to take the place of the disaster known as Obamacare.
It will be repealed and replaced. For those people. The people put into rooms where Republicans are talking about the plan, and it wouldn't matter what they say, for those people just so you understand, our plan will be much better health care at a much lower coast. Okay? Nothing to complain about. Obamacare remember, it is a disaster.
You want low cost American energy also, which means lifting the restrictions on oil, on shell, on natural gas and on clean, very clean coal. We're going to put the miners back to work. The miners go back to work.
You want us to enforce immigration laws and defend our borders.
You want fair trade deals and a level playing field. We don't have a level playing field. Because you understand that when American workers win, America as a country wins and wins big. And every country over the last long period of time has been taking advantage of our politicians. It's not going to happen any longer.
You want lower taxes. Less regulation. Millions of new jobs and more product stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, "Made in the USA." You want to make it easy for companies to do business in America. And harder for companies to leave. We don't want companies saying, everybody is fired. We're moving to another country. We're going to make the product. Sell it across the border and isn't that wonderful. Not going happen anymore.
We're going to have strong borders and when they want to sell that product back across our border, they're going to pay a 35% tax and you know what, they're never going to leave. They will never, ever leave.
And you've seen that because I've already displayed it for the last two months even before I got into office. They're not leaving. And if they do, they're going to pay a big price for terminating the relationship with our workers. You want a government that serves the people not the donors and special interest. You want a government that keeps its promises.
A great spirit of optimism is sweeping and you see it. it's sweeping all across the country. Look at what's happening to the stock market. Look at what's happening to the every poll when it comes to optimism in our country. It's sweeping across the country. And, in fact, every day for the last long period of days this stock market means, companies, have been hitting new highs. They're going to start highs. It's going to be a new day in America. You're going to be proud again.
Jobs are already starting to pour back in. They're coming back in like you haven't seen in a long time. Ford, General Motors, Fiat, Chrysler are bringing in and bringing back thousands of jobs investing billions of dollars because of the new business climate that we are creating in our country. In Arizona, Intel, great company, just announced it will open a new plant that will create at least 10,000 brand new beautiful American jobs.
I followed through on my promise to withdraw from the job killing disaster known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership. TPP, we have just terminated our relationship to it. We're going to have tremendous trade deals all over the world, but they're going to be bilateral or as we would say, one-on-one. None of these deals where we get caught in quicksand. Get mired in and we can't do anything about it. By the way, NAFTA and so many others.
My administration has begun plans to crack down on foreign cheating and currency manipulation which is killing our companies and really, really hurting our workers. We're going to end it.
Within a few days of taking the oath of office, I've taken steps to begin the construction of the Keystone and the Dakota Access Pipelines. Anywhere from 30-40,000 jobs. And very importantly, as I was about to sign it, I said who makes the pipe? Who makes the pipe? Something this audience understands very well, right? Simple question. The lawyers put this very complex document in front. I said, who makes the pipe? They said, sir, it can be made anywhere. I said not anymore. I put a little clause in the bottom. The pipe has to be made in the United States of America if we're going to have pine line.
We believe in two simple rules. I can tell you everybody in this massive, this is a massive hanger. For the big planes. And by the way, do you think that one media group back there, one network will show this crowd. Not one. Not one. They won't show the crowd. You know, coming in on the plane, and that plane represented so much.
And just so you know, they were close to signing a $4.2 billion deal to have a new Air Force One. Can you believe this? I said no way. I said I refuse to fly in a $4.2 billion airplane. I refuse. So I got Boeing and it is actually — a lot of people don't know. The Air Force One project is actually two planes. Why they need to planes, we'll have to talk about that, but they have two planes, but we've got that price down over a billion dollars and I probably have it spoken to be honest with you for honest probably an more than an hour on the project. I got the generals in who are fantastic. I got Boeing in. I told Boeing it's not good enough. We're still not going to do it. The price is still too high. On the fighter jet. We were hundreds of billions of dollars over budget. Seven years late, great plane. A great plane.
So think of it. They're seven years late. Hundreds of billions of dollars over-budget. Other than that by the way the project is going extremely well. And I got the folks in from Lockheed Martin who are terrific people and a terrific product by the way. I also got Boeing in. I said do me a favor, give me a competing offer. And now they're competing and fighting and we've gotten hundreds of millions of dollars off the price of a plane that was going to be ordered, in other words, if my opponent got in, there would have been no calls made to them. They would have signed contracts. So they're going to make plenty of money, but it's going to be a lot less than they would have made without Trump. That I can tell you. You might as well know about it. Nobody talks. By the way, that's for fighter jets. One of the biggest orders in the history of aviation. The order for the F-35. You've been reading about it because it was a disaster. Under the last administration. A disaster. And now we have it running beautifully.
In fact, when the Prime Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Abe, was great. Great guy. When he came over, he said, thank you. I said for what. You saved us many, many millions of dollars on the F-35 fighter jet. Because when I negotiated, I took our allies into the same negotiation. So the first thing he did was thanked med for saving them money and that's good. Okay. That's good. I know the media will never thank me so at least Japan is thanking me, right?
But we believe in two simple rules. Buy American and hire American. We believe it. We've just issued a new order which requires that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. And by the way, a new director was just approved. Can you imagine the length of time it's taken to Democrats and I actually think it's an embarrassment to them, but this is getting in to be record setting time. Incredible people.
Scott Pruitt was just approved, just now approved for the Environmental Protection Agency. He'll do so good. He won't have projects going ten and 12 years and getting rejected. They may be rejected, but they'll be rejected quickly. For the most part, they're going to be accepted. They're going to be environmentally friendly and he is going to be a great Secretary. He will be amazing. We're very happy. That took place yesterday. That's going to be a big difference because they were clogging up the veins of our country with the environmental impact statements and all of the rules and regulations. It was impossible to navigate for companies.
And what did it really mean? Forget about the companies? What did it mean. It meant no jobs. It meant companies leaving our country and going to foreign countries to do things they would rather do here. So we're going to have a whole big situation. We are going to unfreeze all of those companies. They are going to be — they're going have freedom. Be able to build what they want to build. It will be environmentally friendly and we're going to start producing jobs like you've never seen before. That's going to happen. That was a big thing.
We're standing up for the incredible men and women always of law enforcement. We're standing up. And I can tell you, the military and law enforcement they stood up. I don't say for me. I'm the messenger folks. I'm the messenger. They stood up for us in this last election. We got numbers that nobody believed were possible from law enforcement and from military. Basically people they wear uniforms like us. Isn't that nice. I saw this man on TV just now, you. I just saw him on television. He said I love Trump. Let Trump do what he has to do. That's my guy right there. Come here. Come here. No, I just. I'm coming in. That's okay.
Let him up. I'm not worried about him. I'm only worried he's going to give me a kiss. I'm not worried about anything else. This guy is so great. He was one of many people. They're interviewing people in the line. And I have to say, there was a tiny group of protesters out there and they were given as much publicity as this massive room packed with people, but they interviewed this man. Come on up here. Come on up. Guy was great. Hop over the fence. Come on. He can do it. He's in good shape. Look at him. Look at this guy. Come on. This guy is great. Don't worry about him. No, no. Come here. They're going to — come on up. Come here.
This guy. So he's been all over television saying the best things and I see him standing and didn't you get here at like 4 in the morning.
Say a couple of words to this crowd.
A star is born.
I wouldn't say that Secret Service was thrilled with that, but we know our people, right? We know our people. Great guy. And so many others. I see some others. Being interviewed. I see them over here. They started. They came at 4 in the morning. The media will give them no credit. The media, as I told you, won't show this crowd.
All the way outside of this — this is a big a hanger as you get. All the way outside. Way back to the fences. Amazing. I want to thank you, but I want to thank everybody.
I've directed the Department of Justice to take a firm, firm stance to protect our cops, sheriffs, and police from crimes of violence against them. We will work with our police not against our police, our police do a great job and they've never been troubled like they're troubled now. It's very unfair what's happening. So we want to cherish our law enforcement. We will always protect those who protect us.
We've directed the creation of a task force for reducing violent crime in America, including our inner cities. We're going to make our inner cities safe again. Look at what's going on. Look at what's happening in Chicago. Hundreds of shootings, hundreds of deaths. I'll tell you what's happening in Chicago and many other places. Safety is a civil right. And we will fight to make America totally safe again.
I've ordered the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to coordinate on a plan to destroy transnational criminal cartels which are all over the United States and we are going to stop the drugs from pours into your country, into your community, into your cities and poisoning our youth. We're stopping it. We're stopping it. We've taken historic action to secure the southern border and I've ordered the construction of a great border wall, which will start very shortly.
And I've taken decisive action to keep radical Islamic terrorist the hell out of our country. So you probably read where we want to enforce the laws as existing. And so we signed an order a couple of weeks ago, and it was taken over by a court originally by a judge and then a — yes, it's very sad. The reason is for protection and safety. So the statute is so plain and so clear.
I said last week, I was speaking to a great group of sheriffs, the sheriffs group in Washington, and I said if you have a college education, you can understand its. If you have a high school education, you can understand it. If you were a bad student in high school, you can understand it.
I was told. I'll check, but I found it hard to believe, over 30-page decision by the appellate court. Three judges. And you could tell by the way they were reacting because it was broadcast on television. Everything we do gets a lot of people watching. So you could tell by the way that phone call went, wasn't looking good. When they wrote their decision, as I understand it. Maybe I'm wrong.
They didn't write the statute they were making the decision about because every word of the statute is a total kill for the other side. So I thought I would read it. And here's what it says. This is what it says: "Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or any class of aliens into the United States" — okay. So essentially. Whenever somebody comes into the United States. Right.
"If it would be detrimental to the interest of the United States" — okay. Now you know the country's we're talking about and these were countries picked by Obama. They weren't even picked. They were picked by Obama.
"He may," so the President may, "by proclamation and for such period as he shall deem necessary" — now, because it should have said he or she, right. They were not politically correct when they drew this. In fact, that's the only thing that was actually wrong with it. He or she. I don't think the women care too much about that. Right? I don't think so. By the way, we did very well with women. You know, my wife said when some of these phony polls were put out, the CNN poll was so far off, the phony polls. When some of these, she said, what's wrong with you and women. We did very nicely with women. We did nicely with a lot of groups they didn't think we were going to do so nicely with. I guess we had to. That's why we're all here tonight. Right?
So and it goes, "for such as he shall seem necessary suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants or impose on aliens any restriction he may deem to be appropriate." So basically it says the president has the right to keep people out if he feels it's not in the best interest of our country. Right? Unbelievable. Unbelievable. And I listened to these judges talk and talk and talk. So unfair. So we'll be doing something over the next couple of days. We don't give up. We never give up.
We had a court that I disagree with. I disagree with big league — and by the way, whether you read it or whether you watch it on television when other lawyers come on, many of them can't even understand. They're saying how do you come up with that decision. It cannot be more simple. So they're ruling on what I just read you and they don't even quote it in their ruling because you can't because it's too obvious. So we will do something next week. I think you'll be impressed. Let's see what happens.
Here's the bottom line. We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening. We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening in Germany, you look at what's happening last night in Sweden. Sweden, who would believe this. Sweden. They took in large numbers. They're having problems like they never thought possible. You look at what's happening in Brussels. You look at what's happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice. Take a look at Paris. We've allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country and there was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation. There was no nothing. So we're going to keep our country safe.
And we all have heart, by the way. And what I want to do is build safe zones in Syria and other places so they can stay there and live safely until their cities and their country, that mess that I was left by Obama and everybody else — folks, we were left a mess like you wouldn't believe, but we're going to build safe zones. We're going to have those safe zones.
We do owe $20 trillion. Okay. So we're going to have the gulf states pay for those safe zones. They've got nothing, but money. We're going to do it that way instead of taking massive numbers. Tens the of thousands of people into our country and we don't know anything about those people. We want people to come into our country, but we want people that love us. We want people that can cherish us and the traditions of our country. We want people that are going to be great for our country. We don't want people with bad, bad ideas. We don't want that.
I've also directed the defense community headed by General, now — you know, he said it, he said it — and now Secretary 'Mad Dog' Mattis, to develop a plan to totally destroy ISIS. I have ordered the department of defense to begin plans for the great rebuilding of the united states military. We will pursue peace through strength. Our military is badly depleted. You have planes in the military. Where the father flew them and now the son is flying them. Their so old. We make the best equipment anywhere in the world. We're going to start using our best and most modern equipment.
And we're going to make sure our veterans have the care they need when they come home. We love our veterans. We're going to do a great job for our veterans. Our veterans have been very, very sadly treated. These are our great great people. We owe them so much. Our veterans are going to be taken care of for once and for all. Our system and our country has led down our veterans. We are not going to let that go on any further. You wait and you see what we're going to be doing for our great veterans. Thank you veterans. Who is here? Who is a veteran? We're going to take care of our veterans.
We're going to downsize the bloated, bloated bureaucracy which make the government lien and accountable. We're going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. I've already imposed a five year lobbying ban on the executive branch officials and lifetime ban on lobbying for a foreign government.
And there's another major promise I have kept to the American people. I've nominated a fantastic justice to replace the late great Justice Scalia. His name is Judge Neil Gorsuch. He comes from my list of 20 very, very highly qualified judges. He's incredible and has an incredible resume. He's respected by all. His education is as good as it can get. His writings are truly amazing. He will be a true, true defender of our constitution. So let's tell the Senate Democrats to support his nomination for the good of the country because what's happening with the Democrats — no wonder they're doing so badly.
No wonder they're doing so badly. You take a look, race after race, I just want the tell you, in case you didn't read it, of course you're reading the fake news, but the Democrats were supposed to win the presidency. That didn't happen. They were supposed to take over the Senate. That didn't happen. And they were supposed to take over potentially even the House. It was going to be four weeks out the greatest defeat in the modern history of American politics. And it was, but it was for the Democrats, not for the Republicans. So we have to tell the Democrats, because they're doing the wrong thing for the American people, to stop their tactics of delay and obstruction and destruction. They got to get on with it.
My administration is also pushing ahead strongly with very historic tax reform. We are working to lower tax rates in the middle class to reduce tax rates big league on businesses and to make our tax code more fair and very simple for all Americans so it's understandable by everyone. Senate Democrats should work with us to lower taxes and bring back our jobs, but the Democrats want to increase your taxes very, very substantially. We're not going let that happen.
Also time for the Senate Democrats to take responsibility for Obamacare and to work with us to replace it with new reforms that reverse this nation-wide healthcare tragedy. It's a tragedy. You look at some states, Arizona, up 116%. Your deductibles have gone so high you can never use it. Obamacare doesn't work. It's become totally unaffordable. Remember they said the healthcare, it's unaffordable. It doesn't work. And I said to the Republicans, I said you want to do something great politically: don't do anything. Sit back for two years, let it explode. The Democrats will come and beg for us to do something, but we can't do that to the American people. We have to fix it. And we will.
We need members of both parties to join hands and work with us to pass a $1 trillion infrastructure plan to build new roads and bridges and airports and tunnels and highways and railways all across our great nation.
You're all part of this incredible movement. This movement that we talk about so much. That's been written about on the cover of every magazine all over the world. It's a movement that is just sweeping. It's sweeping across our country. It's sweeping frankly across the globe. Look at Brexit. Look at Brexit. Much smaller example, but it's still something you can look at. People want to take back control of their countries and they want to take back control of their lives and the lives of their family.
The nation state remains the best model for human happiness and the American nation remains the greatest symbol of liberty, of freedom and justice on the face of god's earth. And now we have spirit like we've never had before. It's now that we have our sacred duty and we have no choice and we want this choice to defend our country, to protect its values and to serve its great, great citizens. Erasing national borders does not make people safer. It undermines democracy and trade prosperity. We're giving it away.
The so-called global elite have done well for themselves, but left working families with shrinking wages. Really they are shrinking. 18 years ago though many of you in this room made more money working one job than you're making right now working two and three jobs. Instead of peace, we've seen wars that never end and conflicts that never seem to go away. We don't fight to win. We fight politically correct wars. We don't win anymore. We don't win at trade. We don't win in any capacity. We don't win anymore. We're going to start winning again. Believe me.
And we have the chance now working together to deliver change for the ages. This will be change for the ages. Change like never before. To pursue real peace, real stability, and real prosperity. We want to secure our borders and protect our workers. To rebuild our military and our infrastructure. To fix our schools and restore safety to our neighborhoods. To bring hope and opportunity to our inner cities. To ensure a level playing field for all women in the workforce. To reform our tax code and remove the regulations that undermine growth and innovation. And to replace chaos and distrust with community and cooperation. The tired echoes of yesterday's fights. We're fighting battles that no longer help us. We're fighting battles that other people aren't treating us fairly in the fight.
I'm a NATO fan, but many of the countries in NATO, many of the countries that we protect, many of these countries are very rich countries. They're not paying their bills. They're not paying their bills. They have to help us. No longer are we chained down by the discredited approaches of the past. No longer must we listen to those who have nothing to brag about, but failure. New circumstances demand new solutions. Americans have fought and won wars together. Our heroes have shed their blood together and lost their lives. Our citizens have raised their children together, fought for justice together, and shared common hopes and dreams from one generation to the next. Stretching back to the first day of our American independence. This is our legacy. It belongs to all of you. And it belongs to every man, woman, and child in our nation.
Now is the time to call upon these deep ties in the name of bold acts. Let us move past the differences party and find a new loyalty rooted deeply in our country. We are all brothers and all sisters. We share one home. One destiny and one glorious American flag. We are united together by history and by providence. We will make America strong again. I promise. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Greater than ever before.
May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, it's a great honor to be here this morning. And so many faith leaders - very, very important people to me - from across our magnificent nation, and so many leaders from all across the globe. Today we continue a tradition begun by President Eisenhower some 64 years ago.
This gathering is a testament to the power of faith and is one of the great customs of our nation. And I hope to be here seven more times with you.
I want very much to thank our co-chair Senator Boozman and Senator Coons. And all of the congressional leadership; they're all over the place. We have a lot of very distinguished guests. And we have one guest who was just sworn in last night, Rex Tillerson, secretary of state.
Gonna do a great job.
Some people didn't like Rex because he actually got along with leaders of the world. I said, no, you have to understand that's a good thing. That's a good thing, not a bad thing. He's respected all over the world and I think he's going to go down as one of our great, great secretaries.
We appreciate it.
Thank you, thank you, Rex.
Thank you as well to Senate Chaplain Barry Black, for his moving words. And I don't know Chaplain whether or not that's an appointed position - is that an appointed position? I don't even know if you're Democrat or if you're Republican, but I'm appointing you for another year, the hell with it.
And I think it's not even my appointment, it's the Senate's appointment, but we'll talk to them. You're very - you're - your son is here. Your job is very, very secure. OK?
Thank you, Barry. Appreciate it very much.
I also want to thank my great friends the Roma. Where's Roma, beautiful Roma Downey, the voice of an angel. She's got the voice - every time I hear that voice; it's so beautiful. That - everything is so beautiful about Roma, including her husband because he's a special, special friend. Mark Burnett for the wonderful introduction.
So true, so true. I said to the agent, I'm sorry, the only thing wrong - I actually got on the phone and fired him myself because he said, you don't want to do it, it'll never work, it'll never, ever work, you don't want to do it. I said, listen. When I really fired him after it became the number one show, it became so successful and he wanted a commission and he didn't want to this.
That's when I really said - but we had tremendous success on The Apprentice. And when I ran for president, I had to leave the show. That's when I knew for sure that I was doing it. And they hired a big, big movie star, Arnold Schwarzenegger, to take my place. And we know how that turned out.
The ratings went down the tubes. It's been a total disaster and Mark will never, ever bet against Trump again. And I want to just pray for Arnold if we can, for those ratings, OK?
But we've had an amazing life together the last 14, 15 years. And a - an outstanding man and thank you very much for introducing. Appreciate it. It's a great honor.
I also want to thank my dear friend, Vice President Mike Pence, who has been incredible.
And incredible wife, Karen.
And every time I was in a little trouble with something where they were questioning me, they'd say, "But he picked Mike Pence."
"So he has to know what he's doing."
And it's true, he's been - you know on the scale of zero to 10, I rate him a 12, OK?
So I wanna thank you, thank you very much, appreciate it.
But most importantly, today I wanna thank the American people. Your faith and prayers have sustained me and inspired me through some very, very tough times. All around America, I have met amazing people whose words of worship and encouragement have been a constant source of strength.
What I hear most often as I travel the country are five words that never, ever fail to touch my heart, that's "I am praying for you." I hear it so often, I am praying for you, Mr. President.
No one has inspired me more in my travels than the families of the United States military. Men and women who have put their lives on the line everyday for their country and their countrymen. I just came back yesterday, from Dover Air Force Base, to join the family of Chief William "Ryan" Owens as America's fallen hero was returned home.
Very, very sad, but very, very beautiful, very, very beautiful. His family was there, incredible family, loved him so much, so devastated, he was so devastated, but the ceremony was amazing. He died in defense of our nation. He gave his life in defense of our people. Our debt to him and our debt to his family is eternal and everlasting. "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends."
We will never forget the men and women who wear the uniform, believe me.
From generation to generation, their vigilance has kept our liberty alive. Our freedom is won by their sacrifice and our security has been earned with their sweat and blood and tears. God has blessed this land to give us such incredible heroes and patriots. They are very, very special and we are going to take care of them.
Our soldiers understand that what matters is not party or ideology or creed, but the bonds of loyalty that link us all together as one. America is a nation of believers. In towns all across our land, it's plain to see what we easily forget - so easily we forget this, that the quality of our lives is not defined by our material success, but by our spiritual success.
I will tell you that and I tell you that from somebody that has had material success and knows tremendous numbers of people with great material success, the most material success. Many of those people are very, very miserable, unhappy people.
And I know a lot of people without that, but they have great families. They have great faith; they don't have money, at least, not nearly to the extent. And they're happy. Those, to me, are the successful people, I have to tell you.
I was blessed to be raised in a churched home. My mother and father taught me that to whom much is given, much is expected. I was sworn in on the very Bible from which my mother would teach us as young children, and that faith lives on in my heart every single day.
The people in this room come from many, many backgrounds. You represent so many religions and so many views. But we are all united by our faith, in our creator and our firm knowledge that we are all equal in His eyes. We are not just flesh and bone and blood, we are human beings with souls. Our republic was formed on the basis that freedom is not a gift from government, but that freedom is a gift from God.
It was the great Thomas Jefferson who said, the God who gave us life, gave us liberty. Jefferson asked, can the liberties of a nation be secure when we have removed a conviction that these liberties are the gift of God. Among those freedoms is the right to worship according to our own beliefs. That is why I will get rid of and totally destroy the Johnson Amendment and allow our representatives of faith to speak freely and without fear of retribution. I will do that, remember.
Freedom of religion is a sacred right, but it is also a right under threat all around us, and the world is under serious, serious threat in so many different ways. And I've never seen it so much and so openly as since I took the position of president.
The world is in trouble, but we're going to straighten it out. OK? That's what I do. I fix things. We're going to straighten it out.
Believe me. When you hear about the tough phone calls I'm having, don't worry about it. Just don't worry about it. They're tough. We have to tough. It's time we're going to be a little tough folks. We're taking advantage of by every nation in the world virtually. It's not going to happen anymore. It's not going to happen anymore. We have seen unimaginable violence carried out in the name of religion. Acts of wantonness (ph) (inaudible) just minorities. Horrors on a scale that defy description.
Terrorism is a fundamental threat to religious freedom. It must be stopped and it will be stopped. It may not be pretty for a little while. It will be stopped. We have seen...
And by the way, General, as you know James "Mad Dog", shouldn't say it in this room, Mattis, now there's a reason they call him "Mad Dog" Mattis, never lost a battle, always wins them, and always wins them fast. He's our new secretary of Defense, will be working with Rex. He's right now in South Korea, going to Japan, going to some other spots. I'll tell you what, I've gotten to know him really well. He's the real deal. We have somebody who's the real deal working for us and that's what we need. So, you watch. You just watch.
Things will be different. We have seen peace loving Muslims brutalize, victimize, murdered and oppressed by ISIS killers. We have seen threats of extermination against the Jewish people. We have seen a campaign of ISIS and genocide against Christians, where they cut of heads. Not since the Middle Ages have we seen that. We haven't seen that, the cutting off of heads. Now they cut off the heads, they drown people in steel cages. Haven't seen this. I haven't seen this. Nobody's seen this for many, many years.
All nations have a moral obligation to speak out against such violence. All nations have a duty to work together to confront it and to confront it viciously if we have to.
So I want to express clearly today, to the American people, that my administration will do everything in its power to defend and protect religious liberty in our land. America must forever remain a tolerant society where all face are respected and where all of our citizens can feel safe and secure.
We have to feel safe and secure. In recent days, we have begun to take necessary action to achieve that goal. Our nation has the most generous immigration system in the world. But these are those and there are those that would exploit that generosity to undermine the values that we hold so dear. We need security.
There are those who would seek to enter our country for the purpose of spreading violence, or oppressing other people based upon their faith or their lifestyle, not right. We will not allow a beachhead of intolerance to spread in our nation. You look all over the world and you see what's happening.
So in the coming days, we will develop a system to help ensure that those admitted into our country fully embrace our values of religious and personal liberty. And that they reject any form of oppression and discrimination. We want people to come into our nation, but we want people to love us and to love our values, not to hate us and to hate our values.
We will be a safe country, we will be a free country and we will be a country where all citizens can practice their beliefs without fear of hostility or a fear of violence. America will flourish, as long as our liberty, and in particular, our religious liberty is allowed to flourish.
America will succeed, as long as our most vulnerable citizens - and we have some that are so vulnerable - have a path to success. And America will thrive, as long as we continue to have faith in each other and faith in God.
That faith in God has inspired men and women to sacrifice for the needy, to deploy to wars overseas and to lock arms at home, to ensure equal rights for every man, woman and child in our land. It's that faith that sent the pilgrims across the oceans, the pioneers across the plains and the young people all across America, to chase their dreams. They are chasing their dreams. We are going to bring those dreams back.
As long as we have God, we are never, ever alone. Whether it's the soldier on the night watch, or the single parent on the night shift, God will always give us solace and strength, and comfort. We need to carry on and to keep carrying on.
For us here in Washington, we must never, ever stop asking God for the wisdom to serve the public, according to his will. That's why...
That's why President Eisenhower and Senator Carlson had the wisdom to gather together 64 years ago, to begin this truly great tradition. But that's not all they did together. Lemme tell you the rest of the story.
Just one year later, Senator Carlson was among the members of Congress to send to the president's desk a joint resolution that added, "Under God," to our Pledge of Allegiance. It's a great thing.
Because that's what we are and that is what we will always be and that is what our people want; one beautiful nation, under God.
I love this place.
Love you people. So thank you — thank you very much.
First of all, I want to thank Matt Schlapp and his very, very incredible wife, and boss, Mercedes, who have been fantastic friends and supporters and so great. When I watch them on television defending me, nobody has a chance.
So I want to thank Matt and Mercedes.
And when Matt called and asked I said, "Absolutely I'll be there with you." I mean, the real reason I said it, I didn't want him to go against me cause that
that one you can't beat.
So I said absolutely.
And it really is an honor to be here. I wouldn't miss a chance to talk to my friends. These are my friends.
And we'll see you again next year and the year after that and I'll be doing this
I'll be doing this with CPAC whenever I can and I'll make sure that we're here a lot.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You can do it!
You know if you remember my first major speech — sit down everybody. C'mon.
You know the dishonest media they'll say, "He didn't get a standing ovation." You know why?
No — you know why? Because everybody stood and nobody sat. So they will say, "He never got a standing ovation," right?
They are the worst.
So — sit down.
"Donald Trump did not get a standing ovation."
They leave out the part, "They never sat down." They leave that out.
So I just want to thank — but you know my first major speak was at CPAC and — probably five or six years ago. First major political speech. And you were there. And it was — I loved it. I loved the people. I loved the commotion.
And then they did these polls were I went through the roof and I wasn't even running, right?
But it gave me an idea. And I got a little bit concerned when I saw what was happening in the country. And I said, "Let's go to it."
So, it was very exciting. I walked the stage on CPAC. I'll never forget it, really. I had very little notes and even less preparation. So when you have practically no notes and no preparation and then you leave and everybody was thrilled, I said, "I think I like this business."
Read More: President Trump Just Boasted About Winning Polls at CPAC. He Lost 6 Times
I would've come last year but I was worried that I would be, at that time, too controversial. We wanted border security. We wanted very, very strong military. We wanted all of the things that we're going to get
and people consider that controversial but you didn't consider it controversial.
So, I've been with CPAC for a long time. All of these years we've been together. And now you finally have a president, finally. Took you a long time.
Took you a long time.
And it's patriots like you that made it happen, believe me. Believe me.
You did it because you love your country, because you want a better future for your children and because you want to make America great again.
The media didn't think we would win. The pundits — you're right. They had an idea.
The pundits didn't think we'd win. The consultants that suck up all that money — oh, they suck it up. They're so good.
They're not good at politics, but they're really good at sucking up people's money. Especially my opponents, because I kept them down to a minimum.
But the consultants didn't think we would win.
But they all underestimated the power of the people: You. And the people proved them
totally wrong. Never — and — and this is so true. And this is what's been happening. Never underestimate the people. Never.
I don't think it'll ever happen again.
And I want you all to know that we are fighting the fake news. It's fake, phony, fake.
A few days ago I called the fake news the enemy of the people. And they are. They are the enemy of the people.
Because they have no sources, they just make 'em up when there are none. I saw one story recently where they said, "Nine people have confirmed." There're no nine people. I don't believe there was one or two people. Nine people.
And I said, "Give me a break." Because I know the people, I know who they talk to. There were no nine people.
But they say "nine people." And somebody reads it and they think, "Oh, nine people. They have nine sources." They make up sources.
They're very dishonest people. In fact, in covering my comments, the dishonest media did not explain that I called the fake news the enemy of the people. The fake news. They dropped off the word "fake." And all of a sudden the story became the media is the enemy.
They take the word "fake" out. And now I'm saying, "Oh no, this is no good." But that's the way they are.
So I'm not against the media, I'm not against the press. I don't mind bad stories if I deserve them.
And I tell ya, I love good stories, but we don't go
I don't get too many of them.
But I am only against the fake news, media or press. Fake, fake. They have to leave that word.
I'm against the people that make up stories and make up sources.
They shouldn't be allowed to use sources unless they use somebody's name. Let their name be put out there. Let their name be put out.
"A source says that Donald Trump is a horrible, horrible human being." Let 'em say it to my face.
Let there be no more sources.
And remember this — and in not — in all cases. I mean, I had a story written yesterday about me in Reuters by a very honorable man. It was a very fair story.
There are some great reporters around. They're talented, they're honest as the day is long. They're great.
But there are some terrible dishonest people and they do a tremendous disservice to our country and to our people. A tremendous disservice. They are very dishonest people.
And they shouldn't use sources. They should put the name of the person. You will see stories dry up like you've never seen before.
So you have no idea how bad it is, because if you are not part of the story — and I put myself in your position sometimes. Because many of you, you're not part of the story. And if you're not part of the story, you know, then you, sort of, know — if you are part of the story, you know what they're saying is true or not.
So when they make it up — and they make up something else, and you saw that before the election: polls, polls. The polls. They come out with these polls and everybody was so surprised.
Actually, a couple polls got it right. I must say Los Angeles Times did a great job, shocking because, you know, they did a great job.
And we had a couple of others that were right, but generally speaking, I mean, can tell you the network, somebody said a poll came out. And I say, what network is it? And they'll say, a certain — let's not even mention names, right? Shall we?
Well, you have a lot of them. Look, the Clinton News Network is one.
Totally. Take a look. Honestly. Take a look, honestly. Take a look at polls over the last two years. Now you'd think they would fire the pollster, right? After years and years of getting battered, but I — who knows, maybe they are just bad at polling or maybe they're not legit, but it's one or the other, look at how inaccurate — look at CBS, look at ABC, also, look at NBC, take a look at some of these polls. They're so bad, so inaccurate and what that does is it creates a false narrative.
It creates like this narrative that is just like we're not going to win, people say, I love Trump, but you know, I'm not feeling great today, he can't win, so I won't go and vote. I won't go and vote. It creates a whole false deal. And we have to fight it, folks, we have to fight it. They're very smart, they're very cunning and they're very dishonest.
So just to conclude, I mean, it's a very sensitive topic and they get upset when we expose their false stories. They say that we can't criticize their dishonest coverage because of the First Amendment, you know, they always bring up the First Amendment.
And I love the First Amendment; nobody loves it better than me. Nobody.
I mean, who use its more than I do? But the First Amendment gives all of us — it gives it to me, it gives it to you, it gives it to all Americans, the right to speak our minds freely. It gives you the right and me the right to criticize fake news and criticize it strongly.
And many of these groups are part the large media corporations that have their own agenda and it's not your agenda and it's not the country's agenda, it's their own agenda. They have a professional obligation as members of the press to report honestly. But as you saw throughout the entire campaign, and even now, the fake news doesn't tell the truth. Doesn't tell the truth.
So just in finishing, I say it doesn't represent the people, it doesn't tell the never will represent the people, and we're going to do something about it because we have to go out and have to speak our minds and we have to be honest. Our victory was a win like nobody has ever seen before.
I'm here fighting for you and I will continue to fight for you. The victory and the win were something that really was dedicated to a country and people that believe in freedom, security and the rule of law. Our victory
was a victory and the win for conservative values.
And our victory was a win for everyone who believes it's time to stand up for America, to stand up for the American worker and to stand up for the American flag.
Yeah, there we should stand up. Come on. There we should stand up. OK. And by the way, we love our flag. By the way, you folks are in here — this place is packed, there are lines that go back six blocks and I tell you that because you won't read about it, OK.
But there are lines that go back six blocks, there is such love in this country for everything we stand for, you saw that on Election Day.
And you're going to see it more and more.
So we're all part of this very historic movement, a movement the likes of which, actually, the world has never seen before. There's never been anything like this. There's been some movements, but there's never been anything like this.
There's been some movements that petered out like Bernie, petered out.
But it was a little rigged against him, you know, super delegate, super delegate. She had so many delegates before the thing even started, I actually said to my people, how does that happen? Not that I'm a fan of Bernie, but a lot of Bernie people voted for Trump, you know why? Because he's right on one issue; trade. He was right about trade. Our country is being absolutely devastated with bad trade deals. So he was right about that, but we got a lot of Bernie support. So actually, I like Bernie. OK? I like Bernie.
But I'm here today to tell you what this movement means for the future of the Republican party and for the future of America. First we need to define what this great, great unprecedented movement is and what it actually represents. The core conviction of our movement is that we are a nation that put and will put its own citizens first.
For too long, we've traded away our jobs to other countries. So terrible. We've defended other nations' borders while leaving ours wide open, anybody can come in. We're going to build a wall, don't worry about it. We're building the wall. We're building the wall. In fact, it's going to start soon. Way ahead of schedule, way ahead of schedule.
Way, way, way ahead of schedule. It's going to start very soon. General Kelly by the way has done a fantastic job. Fantastic job he's done.
And remember, we are getting the bad ones out. These are bad dudes. We're getting the bad ones out, OK? We're getting the bad — if you watch these people, it's like gee, that's so sad. We're getting bad people out of this country, people that shouldn't be whether it's drugs or murder or other things. We're getting bad ones out, those are the ones that go first and I said it from day one. Basically all I've done is keep my promise.
We've spent trillions of dollars overseas, while allowing our own infrastructure to fall into total disrepair and decay. In the Middle East, we've spent as of four weeks ago, $6 trillion. Think of it.
And by the way, the Middle East is in — I mean, it's not even close, it's in much worse shape than it was 15 years ago. If our presidents would have gone to the beach for 15 years, we would be in much better shape than we are right now, that I can tell you.
Be a hell of a lot better. We could have rebuilt our country three times with that money. This is the situation that I inherited. I inherited a mess, believe me. We also inherited a failed health care law that threatens our medical system with absolute and total catastrophe. Now, I've been watching and nobody says it, but Obamacare doesn't work, folks. I mean, I could say, I could talk, it doesn't work.
And now people are starting to develop a little warm heart, but the people that you're watching, they're not you. They're largely — many of them are the side that lost, you know they lost the election. It's like, how many elections do we have to have? They lost the election. But I always say, Obamacare doesn't work. And these same people two years ago and a year ago were complaining about Obamacare.
And the bottom line, we're changing it. We're going to make it much better, we're going to make it less expensive. We're going to make it much better.
Obamacare covers very few people — and remember, deduct from the number all of the people that had great health care that they loved that was taken away from them — it was taken away from them.
Millions of people were very happy with their health care, they had their doctor, they had their plan. Remember the lie, 28 times. You could keep your doctor, you could keep your plan. Over and over and over again, you heard it. So we're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.
And I tell Paul Ryan and all of the folks that we're working with very hard, Dr. Tom Price, very talented guy.
But I tell them from a purely political standpoint, the single best thing we can do is nothing. Let it implode completely, it's already imploding. You see the carriers are all leaving. I mean, it's a disaster. But two years, don't do anything. The Democrats will come to us and beg for help, they'll beg and it's their problem. But it's not the right thing to do for the American people, it's not the right thing to do.
We inherited a national debt that has doubled in eight years, think of it, $20 trillion, it's doubled. We inherited a foreign policy marked by one disaster after another. We don't win anymore. When was the last time we won? Did we win a war? Did we win anything? Do we win anything? We're going to win. We're going on win big, folks. We're going to start winning again, believe me. We're gonna win.
But we're taking a firm, bold and decisive measure, we have to, to turn things around. The era of empty talk is over, it's over.
Now is the time for action. So let me tell you about the actions that we're taking right now to deliver on our promise to the American people and on my promise to make America great again. We've taken swift and strong action to secure the southern border of the United States and to begin the construction of a great, great border wall.
By doing this, and with the help of our great border police, with the help of ICE, with the help of General Kelly and all of the people that are so passionate about this — our border patrol, I'll tell you what they do, they came and endorsed me, ICE came and endorsed me. They never endorsed a presidential candidate before, they might not even be allowed to.
But they were disgusted with what they saw and we'll stop it. We'll stop the drugs from pouring into our nation and poisoning our youth. Pouring in. Pouring in.
We get the drugs, they get the money. We get the problems, they get the cash. No good. No good. Going to stop. By stopping the flow of illegal immigration, we will save countless tax dollars, and that's so important because the tax — the dollars we're losing are beyond anything that you can imagine. And the tax dollars that can be used to rebuild struggling American communities, including our inner cities.
We are also going to save countless American lives. As we speak today, immigration offers are finding the gang members, the drug dealers and the criminal aliens and throwing them the hell out of our country.
And we will not let them back in. They're not coming back in, folks. They do, they're going to have bigger problems than they ever dreamt of.
I'm also working with the Department of Justice to being reducing violent crime. I mean, can you believe what's happening in Chicago as an example? Two days ago, seven people were shot and I believe killed. Seven people, seven people, Chicago, a great American city, seven people shot and killed. We will support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
Thank you, and thank them. I've also followed through on my campaigning promise and withdrawn America from the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
So that we can protect our economic freedom. And we're going to make trade deals, but we're going to do one on one, one on one, and if they misbehave, we terminate the deal and then they'll come back and we'll make a better deal. None of these big quagmire deals that are a disaster.
Just take a look — by the way, take a look at NAFTA, one of the worst deals ever made by any country, having to do with economic development. It's economy un-development, as far as our country is concerned.
We're preparing to repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare. We're going to save Americans from this crisis, and give them the access to the quality health care they need and deserve. We have authorized the construction, one day, of the Keystone and Dakota Access Pipelines.
And issued a new rule — this took place while I was getting ready to sign. I said who makes the pipes for the pipeline? Well sir, it comes from all over the world, isn't that wonderful? I said nope, comes from the United States, or we're not building it.
American steel.
If they want a pipeline in the United States, they're going to use pipe that's made in the United States. Do we agree?
But can you imagine — I told this story the other day — can you imagine the gentleman — never met him, don't even know the name of this company. I actually sort of know it, but I want to get it exactly correct. Big, big powerful company, they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on the pipeline, same thing with the Dakota, different vice. They got their approvals, everything, in the case of Dakota, then all of a sudden they couldn't connect it because they had people protesting that never showed up before.
But with the Keystone — so they spent hundreds of millions of dollars with bloodsucker consultants — you know, sucking the blood out of the company, don't worry, I've used them all my life, OK? Don't worry, we're going to get it approved, I'm connected, I'm a lobbyist, don't worry. Bottom line, Obama didn't sign it, right? Could be 42,000 jobs, somewhere around there — a lot of jobs. Didn't sign it.
But can you imagine, he gave up. A year ago, it was dead, now he's doing anything, calling his wife, hello darling, I'm a little bored, you know that pipeline that has killed us, that has killed our company. Knock, knock. Mr. so and so, the Keystone Pipeline sir, out of nowhere has just been approved.
Now, can you imagine the expression? And you know the sad part? Those same blood sucking consultants that hit them for all the money and failed, they're now going to go back to him and say, did we do a great job; we want more money, right? Because that's the way the system works, a little bit off, but that's the way the system works.
We're preparing bold action to lift the restrictions on American energy, including shale oil, natural gas and beautiful clean coal and we're going to put our miners back to work.
Miners are going back to work, folks. Sorry to tell you that, but they're going back to work.
We have begun a historic program to reduce the regulations that are crushing our economy, crushing.
And not only our economy, crushing our jobs because companies can't hire. We're going to put the regulation industry out of work and out of business.
And by the way, I want regulation. I want to protect our environment, I want regulations for safety, I want all of the regulations that we need and I want them to be so strong and so tough, but we don't need 75 percent of the repetitive, horrible regulations that hurt companies, hurt jobs, make us non-competitive overseas with other companies from other countries, that we don't need.
But we're going to have regulation. It's going to be really strong and really good and we're going to protect our environment and we're going to protect the safety of our people and our workers, OK?
Another major promise is tax reform. We're going to massively lower taxes on the middle class, reduce taxes on American business and make our tax code more simple and much more fair for everyone, including the people and the business.
In anticipation of these and other changes, jobs are already starting to pour back into our country, you see that. In fact, I think I did more than any other pre-president, they say president- elect. President-elect is meeting with Ford, he's meeting with Chrysler, he's meeting with General Motors. I just wanted to save a little time.
Because Ford and Fiat Chrysler, General Motors, Sprint, Intel, and so many others are now, because of the election result, making major investments in the United States, expanding production and hiring more workers. And they're going back to Michigan and they're going back to Ohio and they're going back to Pennsylvania and they're going back to North Carolina and to Florida.
It's time for all Americans to get off of welfare and get back to work, you're going to love it, you're going to love it, you're going to love it.
We're also put nothing a massive budget request for our beloved military.
And we will be substantially upgrading all of our military, all of our military, offensive, defensive, everything, bigger and better and stronger than ever before. And hopefully, we'll never have to use it, but nobody's gonna mess with us, folks, nobody.
It will be one of the greatest military build-ups in American history. No one will dare question as they have been because we're very depleted, very, very depleted. Sequester. Sequester. Nobody will dare question our military might again. We believe in peace through strength and that's what we will have.
As part of my pledge to restore safety for the American people, I have also directed the defense community to develop a plan to totally obliterate ISIS.
Working with our allies, we will eradicate this evil from the face of the Earth.
At the same time, we fully understand that national security begins with border security; foreign terrorists will not be able to strike America if they cannot get into our country.
By the way, take a look at what's happening in Europe, folks, take a look at what's happening in Europe. I took a lot of heat on Sweden.
And then a day later, I said has anybody reported what's going on? And it turned out that they didn't — not too many of them did. Take a look at what happened in Sweden. I love Sweden, great country, great people, I love Sweden. But they understand. The people over there understand I'm right. Take a look at what's happening in Sweden. Take a look at what's happening in Germany. Take a look at what's happened in France. Take a look at Nice and Paris.
I have a friend, he's a very, very substantial guy. He loves the city of lights, he loves Paris. For years, every year during the summer, he would go to Paris, was automatic with his wife and his family. Hadn't seen him in a while. And I said, Jim, let me ask you a question, how's Paris doing? "Paris? I don't go there anymore, Paris is no longer Paris." That was four years — four or five years hasn't gone there. He wouldn't miss it for anything. Now he doesn't even think in terms of going there.
Take a look at what's happening to our world, folks. And we have to be smart. We have to be smart. We can't let it happen to us.
So let me state this as clearly as I can, we are going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
We will not be deterred from this course, and in a matter of days, we will be taking brand-new action to protect our people and keep America safe, you will see the action. I will never ever apologize for protecting the safety and security of the American people, I won't do it.
If it means I get bad press, if it means people speak badly of me, it's OK, doesn't bother me. The security of our people is number one, is number one.
Our administration is running with great efficiency, even though I still don't have my Cabinet approved, nobody mentions that.
You know, I still have people out there waiting to be approved and everyone knows they're gonna be approved. It's just a delay, delay, delay, it's really sad, it's really sad. And these are great people, these are some great people. We still don't have our Cabinet. I assume we're setting records for that. That's the only thing good about it is we're setting records. I love setting records.
But I hate having a Cabinet meeting and I see all these empty seats. I said, Democrats, please approve our Cabinet and get smart on health care, too, if you don't mind.
But we're taking meetings everyday with top leaders in business, in science and industry. Yesterday, I had 29 of the biggest business leaders in the world in my office; Caterpillar, Tractor, Campbell's Soup. We had everybody. We had everybody. I like Campbell's Soup.
We had everybody and we came to a lot of very good conclusions and a lot of those folks that are in that room are gonna be building big, big, massive new plants and lots of jobs. And you know what? They're gonna be building them in this country, not in some other country.
We're meeting with unions, meeting with law enforcement and we're meeting with leaders from all around where the White House doors used to be totally closed. They were closed, folks. You don't realize that, they were closed.
They're now wide open and they're open for people doing business for our country and putting people to work.
And when they come into the White House, we're translating these meetings into action. One by one, we're checking off the promises we made to the people of the United States. One by one, a lot of promises. And we will not stop until the job is done. We will reduce your taxes, we will cut your regulations, we will support our police, we will defend our flag.
We will rebuild our military. We will take care of our great, great veterans. We're taking care of our veterans.
We will fix our broken and embarrassing trade deals that are no good. None of them. You wonder where did the people come from that negotiated these deals. Where did they come from? Well, they came also from campaign contributions, I must be honest. They're not as stupid as you think.
We will cut wasteful spending. We will promote our values. We will rebuild our inner cities. We will bring back our jobs and our dreams. So true. So true.
And by the way, we will protect our Second Amendment.
You know, Wayne and Chris are here from the NRA and they didn't have that on the list. It's lucky I thought about it.
But we will indeed, and they're great people. And by the way, they love our country. They love our country. The NRA has been a great supporter. They love our country.
The forgotten men and women of America will be forgotten no longer. That is the heart of this new movement and the future of the Republican Party. People came to vote, and these people, the media, they said where are they coming from? What's going on here? These are hard-working, great, great Americans. These are unbelievable people who have not been treated fairly. Hillary called them deplorable. They're not deplorable.
Who would have thought that a word was gonna play so badly?
That's the problem in politics. One wrong word and it's over. She also said irredeemable, but we won't mention that.
The GOP will be, from now on, the party also of the American worker.
You know, we haven't been as a group given credit for this, but if you look at how much bigger our party has gotten during this cycle, during the early days when we had 17 people running in the primaries. Millions and millions of people were joining. Now, I won't say it was because of me, but it was. OK?
And we have an amazing, strong, powerful party that truly does want to see America be great again, and it will see it and it's gonna see it a lot sooner than you think, believe me, a lot sooner than you think.
We will not answer to donors or lobbyists, or special interests, but we will serve the citizens of the United States of America, believe me.
Global cooperation, dealing with other countries, getting along with other countries is good, it's very important. But there is no such thing as a global anthem, a global currency or a global flag. This is the United States of America that I'm representing.
I'm not representing the globe, I'm representing your country.
There's one allegiance that unites us all, and that is to America. America, it's the allegiance to America.
No matter our background or income, or geography, we're all citizens of this blessed land. And no matter our color or the blood — the color of the blood we bleed, it's the same red blood of great, great patriots. Remember, great patriots.
We all salute with pride, the same American flag, and we all are equal — totally equal in the eyes of almighty God, we're equal.
Thank you.
And I want to thank, by the way, the Evangelical community, the Christian community.
Communities of faith, rabbis and priests and pastors, ministers, because the support for me was a record, as you know, not only in terms of numbers of people, but percentage of those numbers that voted for Trump. So I want to thank you folks, that was amazing — an amazing outpour
and I will not disappoint you. As long as we have faith in each other and trust in God, then there is no goal at all beyond our reach. There is no dream too large, no task too great, we are Americans and the future belongs to us.
The future belongs to all of you. And America is coming about, and it's coming back, and it's roaring and you can hear it. It's going to be bigger and better. It is going to be — it is going to be — remember and it's roaring. It's going to be bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
I want to thank you.
And Matt and Mercedes, I want to thank the two of you, and all of the supporters that I have.
I see them; they're all over the place. You are really great people. I want to thank you.
And I want to say to you, God bless you and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, folks. Thank you.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States, and Citizens of America:
Tonight, as we mark the conclusion of our celebration of Black History Month, we are reminded of our Nation's path toward civil rights and the work that still remains. Recent threats targeting Jewish Community Centers and vandalism of Jewish cemeteries, as well as last week's shooting in Kansas City, remind us that while we may be a Nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all its forms.
Each American generation passes the torch of truth, liberty and justice — in an unbroken chain all the way down to the present.
That torch is now in our hands. And we will use it to light up the world. I am here tonight to deliver a message of unity and strength, and it is a message deeply delivered from my heart.
A new chapter of American Greatness is now beginning.
A new national pride is sweeping across our Nation.
And a new surge of optimism is placing impossible dreams firmly within our grasp.
What we are witnessing today is the Renewal of the American Spirit.
Our allies will find that America is once again ready to lead.
All the nations of the world — friend or foe — will find that America is strong, America is proud, and America is free.
In 9 years, the United States will celebrate the 250th anniversary of our founding — 250 years since the day we declared our Independence.
It will be one of the great milestones in the history of the world.
But what will America look like as we reach our 250th year? What kind of country will we leave for our children?
I will not allow the mistakes of recent decades past to define the course of our future.
For too long, we've watched our middle class shrink as we've exported our jobs and wealth to foreign countries.
We've financed and built one global project after another, but ignored the fates of our children in the inner cities of Chicago, Baltimore, Detroit — and so many other places throughout our land.
We've defended the borders of other nations, while leaving our own borders wide open, for anyone to cross — and for drugs to pour in at a now unprecedented rate.
And we've spent trillions of dollars overseas, while our infrastructure at home has so badly crumbled.
Then, in 2016, the earth shifted beneath our feet. The rebellion started as a quiet protest, spoken by families of all colors and creeds — families who just wanted a fair shot for their children, and a fair hearing for their concerns.
But then the quiet voices became a loud chorus — as thousands of citizens now spoke out together, from cities small and large, all across our country.
Finally, the chorus became an earthquake — and the people turned out by the tens of millions, and they were all united by one very simple, but crucial demand, that America must put its own citizens first ... because only then, can we truly make America great again.
Dying industries will come roaring back to life. Heroic veterans will get the care they so desperately need.
Our military will be given the resources its brave warriors so richly deserve.
Crumbling infrastructure will be replaced with new roads, bridges, tunnels, airports and railways gleaming across our beautiful land.
Our terrible drug epidemic will slow down and ultimately, stop.
And our neglected inner cities will see a rebirth of hope, safety, and opportunity.
Above all else, we will keep our promises to the American people.
It's been a little over a month since my inauguration, and I want to take this moment to update the
Nation on the progress I've made in keeping those promises.
Since my election, Ford, Fiat-Chrysler, General Motors, Sprint, Softbank, Lockheed, Intel, Walmart, and many others, have announced that they will invest billions of dollars in the United States and will create tens of thousands of new American jobs.
The stock market has gained almost three trillion dollars in value since the election on November 8th, a record. We've saved taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars by bringing down the price of the fantastic new F-35 jet fighter, and will be saving billions more dollars on contracts all across our Government. We have placed a hiring freeze on non-military and non-essential Federal workers.
We have begun to drain the swamp of government corruption by imposing a 5 year ban on lobbying by executive branch officials — and a lifetime ban on becoming lobbyists for a foreign government.
We have undertaken a historic effort to massively reduce job‑crushing regulations, creating a deregulation task force inside of every Government agency; imposing a new rule which mandates that for every 1 new regulation, 2 old regulations must be eliminated; and stopping a regulation that threatens the future and livelihoods of our great coal miners.
We have cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone and Dakota Access Pipelines — thereby creating tens of thousands of jobs — and I've issued a new directive that new American pipelines be made with American steel.
We have withdrawn the United States from the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership.
With the help of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, we have formed a Council with our neighbors in Canada to help ensure that women entrepreneurs have access to the networks, markets and capital they need to start a business and live out their financial dreams.
To protect our citizens, I have directed the Department of Justice to form a Task Force on Reducing Violent Crime.
I have further ordered the Departments of Homeland Security and Justice, along with the Department of State and the Director of National Intelligence, to coordinate an aggressive strategy to dismantle the criminal cartels that have spread across our Nation.
We will stop the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth — and we will expand treatment for those who have become so badly addicted.
At the same time, my Administration has answered the pleas of the American people for immigration enforcement and border security. By finally enforcing our immigration laws, we will raise wages, help the unemployed, save billions of dollars, and make our communities safer for everyone. We want all Americans to succeed — but that can't happen in an environment of lawless chaos. We must restore integrity and the rule of law to our borders.
For that reason, we will soon begin the construction of a great wall along our southern border. It will be started ahead of schedule and, when finished, it will be a very effective weapon against drugs and crime.
As we speak, we are removing gang members, drug dealers and criminals that threaten our communities and prey on our citizens. Bad ones are going out as I speak tonight and as I have promised.
To any in Congress who do not believe we should enforce our laws, I would ask you this question: what would you say to the American family that loses their jobs, their income, or a loved one, because America refused to uphold its laws and defend its borders?
Our obligation is to serve, protect, and defend the citizens of the United States. We are also taking strong measures to protect our Nation from Radical Islamic Terrorism.
According to data provided by the Department of Justice, the vast majority of individuals convicted for terrorism-related offenses since 9/11 came here from outside of our country. We have seen the attacks at home — from Boston to San Bernardino to the Pentagon and yes, even the World Trade Center.
We have seen the attacks in France, in Belgium, in Germany and all over the world.
It is not compassionate, but reckless, to allow uncontrolled entry from places where proper vetting cannot occur. Those given the high honor of admission to the United States should support this country and love its people and its values.
We cannot allow a beachhead of terrorism to form inside America — we cannot allow our Nation to become a sanctuary for extremists.
That is why my Administration has been working on improved vetting procedures, and we will shortly take new steps to keep our Nation safe — and to keep out those who would do us harm.
As promised, I directed the Department of Defense to develop a plan to demolish and destroy ISIS — a network of lawless savages that have slaughtered Muslims and Christians, and men, women, and children of all faiths and beliefs. We will work with our allies, including our friends and allies in the Muslim world, to extinguish this vile enemy from our planet.
I have also imposed new sanctions on entities and individuals who support Iran's ballistic missile program, and reaffirmed our unbreakable alliance with the State of Israel.
Finally, I have kept my promise to appoint a Justice to the United States Supreme Court — from my list of 20 judges — who will defend our Constitution. I am honored to have Maureen Scalia with us in the gallery tonight. Her late, great husband, Antonin Scalia, will forever be a symbol of American justice. To fill his seat, we have chosen Judge Neil Gorsuch, a man of incredible skill, and deep devotion to the law. He was confirmed unanimously to the Court of Appeals, and I am asking the Senate to swiftly approve his nomination.
Tonight, as I outline the next steps we must take as a country, we must honestly acknowledge the circumstances we inherited.
Ninety-four million Americans are out of the labor force.
Over 43 million people are now living in poverty, and over 43 million Americans are on food stamps.
More than 1 in 5 people in their prime working years are not working.
We have the worst financial recovery in 65 years.
In the last 8 years, the past Administration has put on more new debt than nearly all other Presidents combined.
We've lost more than one-fourth of our manufacturing jobs since NAFTA was approved, and we've lost 60,000 factories since China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001.
Our trade deficit in goods with the world last year was nearly $800 billion dollars.
And overseas, we have inherited a series of tragic foreign policy disasters.
Solving these, and so many other pressing problems, will require us to work past the differences of party. It will require us to tap into the American spirit that has overcome every challenge throughout our long and storied history.
But to accomplish our goals at home and abroad, we must restart the engine of the American economy — making it easier for companies to do business in the United States, and much harder for companies to leave.
Right now, American companies are taxed at one of the highest rates anywhere in the world.
My economic team is developing historic tax reform that will reduce the tax rate on our companies so they can compete and thrive anywhere and with anyone. At the same time, we will provide massive tax relief for the middle class.
We must create a level playing field for American companies and workers.
Currently, when we ship products out of America, many other countries make us pay very high tariffs and taxes — but when foreign companies ship their products into America, we charge them almost nothing.
I just met with officials and workers from a great American company, Harley-Davidson. In fact, they proudly displayed five of their magnificent motorcycles, made in the USA, on the front lawn of the White House.
At our meeting, I asked them, how are you doing, how is business? They said that it's good. I asked them further how they are doing with other countries, mainly international sales. They told me — without even complaining because they have been mistreated for so long that they have become used to it — that it is very hard to do business with other countries because they tax our goods at such a high rate. They said that in one case another country taxed their motorcycles at 100 percent.
They weren't even asking for change. But I am.
I believe strongly in free trade but it also has to be fair trade.
The first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned that the "abandonment of the protective policy by the American Government will produce want and ruin among our people."
Lincoln was right — and it is time we heeded his words. I am not going to let America and its great companies and workers, be taken advantage of anymore.
I am going to bring back millions of jobs. Protecting our workers also means reforming our system of legal immigration. The current, outdated system depresses wages for our poorest workers, and puts great pressure on taxpayers.
Nations around the world, like Canada, Australia and many others — have a merit-based immigration system. It is a basic principle that those seeking to enter a country ought to be able to support themselves financially. Yet, in America, we do not enforce this rule, straining the very public resources that our poorest citizens rely upon. According to the National Academy of Sciences, our current immigration system costs America's taxpayers many billions of dollars a year.
Switching away from this current system of lower-skilled immigration, and instead adopting a merit-based system, will have many benefits: it will save countless dollars, raise workers' wages, and help struggling families — including immigrant families — enter the middle class.
I believe that real and positive immigration reform is possible, as long as we focus on the following goals: to improve jobs and wages for Americans, to strengthen our nation's security, and to restore respect for our laws.
If we are guided by the well-being of American citizens then I believe Republicans and Democrats can work together to achieve an outcome that has eluded our country for decades.
Another Republican President, Dwight D. Eisenhower, initiated the last truly great national infrastructure program — the building of the interstate highway system. The time has come for a new program of national rebuilding.
America has spent approximately six trillion dollars in the Middle East, all this while our infrastructure at home is crumbling. With this six trillion dollars we could have rebuilt our country — twice. And maybe even three times if we had people who had the ability to negotiate.
To launch our national rebuilding, I will be asking the Congress to approve legislation that produces a $1 trillion investment in the infrastructure of the United States — financed through both public and private capital — creating millions of new jobs.
This effort will be guided by two core principles: Buy American, and Hire American.
Tonight, I am also calling on this Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare with reforms that expand choice, increase access, lower costs, and at the same time, provide better Healthcare.
Mandating every American to buy government-approved health insurance was never the right solution for America. The way to make health insurance available to everyone is to lower the cost of health insurance, and that is what we will do.
Obamacare premiums nationwide have increased by double and triple digits. As an example, Arizona went up 116 percent last year alone. Governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky just said Obamacare is failing in his State — it is unsustainable and collapsing.
One third of counties have only one insurer on the exchanges — leaving many Americans with no choice at all.
Remember when you were told that you could keep your doctor, and keep your plan?
We now know that all of those promises have been broken.
Obamacare is collapsing — and we must act decisively to protect all Americans. Action is not a choice — it is a necessity.
So I am calling on all Democrats and Republicans in the Congress to work with us to save Americans from this imploding Obamacare disaster.
Here are the principles that should guide the Congress as we move to create a better healthcare system for all Americans:
First, we should ensure that Americans with pre-existing conditions have access to coverage, and that we have a stable transition for Americans currently enrolled in the healthcare exchanges.
Secondly, we should help Americans purchase their own coverage, through the use of tax credits and expanded Health Savings Accounts — but it must be the plan they want, not the plan forced on them by the Government.
Thirdly, we should give our great State Governors the resources and flexibility they need with Medicaid to make sure no one is left out.
Fourthly, we should implement legal reforms that protect patients and doctors from unnecessary costs that drive up the price of insurance — and work to bring down the artificially high price of drugs and bring them down immediately.
Finally, the time has come to give Americans the freedom to purchase health insurance across State lines — creating a truly competitive national marketplace that will bring cost way down and provide far better care.
Everything that is broken in our country can be fixed. Every problem can be solved. And every hurting family can find healing, and hope.
Our citizens deserve this, and so much more — so why not join forces to finally get it done? On this and so many other things, Democrats and Republicans should get together and unite for the good of our country, and for the good of the American people.
My administration wants to work with members in both parties to make childcare accessible and affordable, to help ensure new parents have paid family leave, to invest in women's health, and to promote clean air and clear water, and to rebuild our military and our infrastructure.
True love for our people requires us to find common ground, to advance the common good, and to cooperate on behalf of every American child who deserves a brighter future.
An incredible young woman is with us this evening who should serve as an inspiration to us all.
Today is Rare Disease day, and joining us in the gallery is a Rare Disease Survivor, Megan Crowley. Megan was diagnosed with Pompe Disease, a rare and serious illness, when she was 15 months old. She was not expected to live past 5.
On receiving this news, Megan's dad, John, fought with everything he had to save the life of his precious child. He founded a company to look for a cure, and helped develop the drug that saved Megan's life. Today she is 20 years old — and a sophomore at Notre Dame.
Megan's story is about the unbounded power of a father's love for a daughter.
But our slow and burdensome approval process at the Food and Drug Administration keeps too many advances, like the one that saved Megan's life, from reaching those in need.
If we slash the restraints, not just at the FDA but across our Government, then we will be blessed with far more miracles like Megan.
In fact, our children will grow up in a Nation of miracles.
But to achieve this future, we must enrich the mind — and the souls — of every American child.
Education is the civil rights issue of our time.
I am calling upon Members of both parties to pass an education bill that funds school choice for disadvantaged youth, including millions of African-American and Latino children. These families should be free to choose the public, private, charter, magnet, religious or home school that is right for them.
Joining us tonight in the gallery is a remarkable woman, Denisha Merriweather. As a young girl, Denisha struggled in school and failed third grade twice. But then she was able to enroll in a private center for learning, with the help of a tax credit scholarship program. Today, she is the first in her family to graduate, not just from high school, but from college. Later this year she will get her masters degree in social work.
We want all children to be able to break the cycle of poverty just like Denisha.
But to break the cycle of poverty, we must also break the cycle of violence.
The murder rate in 2015 experienced its largest single-year increase in nearly half a century.
In Chicago, more than 4,000 people were shot last year alone — and the murder rate so far this year has been even higher.
This is not acceptable in our society.
Every American child should be able to grow up in a safe community, to attend a great school, and to have access to a high-paying job.
But to create this future, we must work with — not against — the men and women of law enforcement.
We must build bridges of cooperation and trust — not drive the wedge of disunity and division.
Police and sheriffs are members of our community. They are friends and neighbors, they are mothers and fathers, sons and daughters — and they leave behind loved ones every day who worry whether or not they'll come home safe and sound.
We must support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
And we must support the victims of crime.
I have ordered the Department of Homeland Security to create an office to serve American Victims.
The office is called VOICE — Victims Of Immigration Crime Engagement. We are providing a voice to those who have been ignored by our media, and silenced by special interests.
Joining us in the audience tonight are four very brave Americans whose government failed them.
Their names are Jamiel Shaw, Susan Oliver, Jenna Oliver, and Jessica Davis.
Jamiel's 17-year-old son was viciously murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member, who had just been released from prison. Jamiel Shaw Jr. was an incredible young man, with unlimited potential who was getting ready to go to college where he would have excelled as a great quarterback. But he never got the chance. His father, who is in the audience tonight, has become a good friend of mine.
Also with us are Susan Oliver and Jessica Davis. Their husbands — Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver and Detective Michael Davis — were slain in the line of duty in California. They were pillars of their community. These brave men were viciously gunned down by an illegal immigrant with a criminal record and two prior deportations.
Sitting with Susan is her daughter, Jenna. Jenna: I want you to know that your father was a hero, and that tonight you have the love of an entire country supporting you and praying for you.
To Jamiel, Jenna, Susan and Jessica: I want you to know — we will never stop fighting for justice.
Your loved ones will never be forgotten, we will always honor their memory.
Finally, to keep America Safe we must provide the men and women of the United States military with the tools they need to prevent war and — if they must — to fight and to win.
I am sending the Congress a budget that rebuilds the military, eliminates the Defense sequester, and calls for one of the largest increases in national defense spending in American history.
My budget will also increase funding for our veterans.
Our veterans have delivered for this Nation — and now we must deliver for them.
The challenges we face as a Nation are great. But our people are even greater.
And none are greater or braver than those who fight for America in uniform.
We are blessed to be joined tonight by Carryn Owens, the widow of a U.S. Navy Special Operator, Senior Chief William "Ryan" Owens. Ryan died as he lived: a warrior, and a hero — battling against terrorism and securing our Nation.
I just spoke to General Mattis, who reconfirmed that, and I quote, "Ryan was a part of a highly successful raid that generated large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemies." Ryan's legacy is etched into eternity. For as the Bible teaches us, there is no greater act of love than to lay down one's life for one's friends. Ryan laid down his life for his friends, for his country, and for our freedom — we will never forget him.
To those allies who wonder what kind of friend America will be, look no further than the heroes who wear our uniform.
Our foreign policy calls for a direct, robust and meaningful engagement with the world. It is American leadership based on vital security interests that we share with our allies across the globe.
We strongly support NATO, an alliance forged through the bonds of two World Wars that dethroned fascism, and a Cold War that defeated communism.
But our partners must meet their financial obligations.
And now, based on our very strong and frank discussions, they are beginning to do just that.
We expect our partners, whether in NATO, in the Middle East, or the Pacific — to take a direct and meaningful role in both strategic and military operations, and pay their fair share of the cost.
We will respect historic institutions, but we will also respect the sovereign rights of nations.
Free nations are the best vehicle for expressing the will of the people — and America respects the right of all nations to chart their own path. My job is not to represent the world. My job is to represent the United States of America. But we know that America is better off, when there is less conflict — not more.
We must learn from the mistakes of the past — we have seen the war and destruction that have raged across our world.
The only long-term solution for these humanitarian disasters is to create the conditions where displaced persons can safely return home and begin the long process of rebuilding.
America is willing to find new friends, and to forge new partnerships, where shared interests align.
We want harmony and stability, not war and conflict.
We want peace, wherever peace can be found. America is friends today with former enemies. Some of our closest allies, decades ago, fought on the opposite side of these World Wars. This history should give us all faith in the possibilities for a better world.
Hopefully, the 250th year for America will see a world that is more peaceful, more just and more free.
On our 100th anniversary, in 1876, citizens from across our Nation came to Philadelphia to celebrate America's centennial. At that celebration, the country's builders and artists and inventors showed off their creations.
Alexander Graham Bell displayed his telephone for the first time.
Remington unveiled the first typewriter. An early attempt was made at electric light.
Thomas Edison showed an automatic telegraph and an electric pen.
Imagine the wonders our country could know in America's 250th year.
Think of the marvels we can achieve if we simply set free the dreams of our people.
Cures to illnesses that have always plagued us are not too much to hope.
American footprints on distant worlds are not too big a dream.
Millions lifted from welfare to work is not too much to expect.
And streets where mothers are safe from fear — schools where children learn in peace — and jobs where Americans prosper and grow — are not too much to ask.
When we have all of this, we will have made America greater than ever before. For all Americans.
This is our vision. This is our mission.
But we can only get there together.
We are one people, with one destiny.
We all bleed the same blood.
We all salute the same flag.
And we are all made by the same God.
And when we fulfill this vision; when we celebrate our 250 years of glorious freedom, we will look back on tonight as when this new chapter of American Greatness began.
The time for small thinking is over. The time for trivial fights is behind us.
We just need the courage to share the dreams that fill our hearts.
The bravery to express the hopes that stir our souls.
And the confidence to turn those hopes and dreams to action.
From now on, America will be empowered by our aspirations, not burdened by our fears —
inspired by the future, not bound by the failures of the past —
and guided by our vision, not blinded by our doubts.
I am asking all citizens to embrace this Renewal of the American Spirit. I am asking all members of Congress to join me in dreaming big, and bold and daring things for our country. And I am asking everyone watching tonight to seize this moment and —
Believe in yourselves.
Believe in your future.
And believe, once more, in America.
Thank you, God bless you, and God Bless these United States.
I think it was very smooth. We had 109 people out of hundreds of thousands of travelers and all we did was vet those people very, very carefully.
Well, that's not what General Kelly said. General Kelly - who's now Secretary Kelly - he said he totally knew, he was aware of it, and it was very smooth. It was 109 people.
I think it was the worst deal I’ve ever seen negotiated. I think it was a deal that never should have been negotiated -
Absolutely. The deal that was made by the Obama administration. I think it’s a shame that we’ve had a deal like that and that we had to sign a deal like that and there was no reason to do it and if you’re going to do it, have a good deal.
We gave them $1.7 billion in cash, which is unheard of, and we put the money up and we have really nothing to show for it.
We’ll see what happens. We’re going to see what happens. I can say this: They have total disregard for our country. They are the number one terrorist state, they are sending money all over the place, and weapons, and you can’t do that.
I never talk about military moves. I always criticized President Obama with having an announcement that they’re going into Mosul. They give the name, the date the time. I don’t believe in that.
I’m not bullish. I think they have total disrespect for our country and I understand that deal. I would have lived with it if they said "OK, were all together now," but it’s just the opposite. It’s like they’re emboldened. They follow our planes, they circle our ships with their little boats and they lost respect because they can’t believe anybody could be so stupid as to make a deal like that.
Busy week and a half.
I do respect him but -
Well, I respect a lot of people but that doesn’t mean I’m going to get along with him. He’s a leader of his country. I say it’s better to get along with Russia than not. And if Russia helps us in the fight against ISIS, which is a major fight, and Islamic terrorism all over the world - that’s a good thing. Will I get along with him? I have no idea.
There are a lot of killers. We’ve got a lot of killers. What do you think - our country’s so innocent. You think our country’s so innocent?
Well - take a look at what we’ve done too. We made a lot of mistakes. I’ve been against the war in Iraq from the beginning.
A lot of mistakes, but a lot of people were killed. A lot of killers around, believe me.
We have to do something about the cartels. I did talk to him about it. I want to help him with it. I think he’s a very good man. We have a very good relationship, as you probably know. He seemed very willing to get help from us because he has got a problem, and it’s a real problem for us. Don’t forget those cartels are operating in our country. And they’re poisoning the youth of our country.
I love the people. I really like this administration. I think he’s a good man. We get along very well. But they have problems controlling aspects of their country. There’s no question about it, and I would say the drugs and the drug cartels, No.1.
Well, right now it’s very unfavorable. Right now, we’re losing our jobs to Mexico. You look at the plants, these massive plants. Now I have to tell you, I’ve turned it around already, I’ve turned it around. You see that. Ford has been phenomenal. They cancelled a plant. They’re building tremendous
I don’t know if they’re afraid of me. They wanna do what’s right.
Because the wrong people spoke to them. But they’re gonna do what’s right, and they’re bringing jobs back to Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania and all the places that have lost their jobs. That’s already happening. I think you’re gonna see tremendous job growth in this country.
Well, I think it’s ridiculous. Sanctuary cities, as you know, I’m very much opposed to sanctuary cities. They breed crime, there’s a lot of problems. If we have to, we’ll defund. We give tremendous amounts of money to California - California in many ways is out of control, as you know. Obviously the voters agree, otherwise they wouldn’t have voted for me.
Well it’s a weapon. I don’t want to defund a state, a city.
I don’t want to defund anyone. I want to give them the money they need to properly operate as a city or state. If they’re going to have sanctuary cities, we may have to do that. Certainly that would be a weapon.
Many people have come out and said I’m right. You know that.
Let me just tell you. And it doesn’t have to do with the vote, although that’s the end result. It has to do with the registration. And when you look at the registration and you see dead people that have voted, when you see people that are registered in two states that voted in two states, when you see other things, when you see illegals, people that are not citizens, and they’re on the registration rolls. Look, Bill, we can be babies, but you take a look at the registration, you have illegals, you have dead people, you have this. It’s really a bad situation. It’s really bad.
Well, I think I already have. A lot of people have come out and said that I am correct.
Forget that. Forget all of that. Just take a look at the registration, and we’re gonna do it, and I’m gonna set up a commission, to be headed by Vice President Mike Pence, and we’re gonna look at it very, very carefully.
I think so, yes, and I think before the end of the year. I would like to say yes.
In the process, and maybe it’ll take until sometime into next year, but we are certainly gonna be in the process. Very complicated. Obamacare is a disaster. You have to remember, Obamacare doesn’t work. So we are putting in a wonderful plan. It statutorily takes a while to get. We’re gonna be putting it in fairly soon. I think that, yes, I would like to say, by the end of the year, at least the rudiments, but we should have something within the year and the following year.
Well, I must tell you, the other day, I walked into the main entrance of the White House, and I said to myself, "This is sort of amazing." Or you walk into Air Force One. It’s like a surreal experience, in a certain way, but you have to get over it, because there’s so much work to be done, whether it’s jobs or other nations that truly hate us. You have to get over it.
Well, I like Bob Kraft. I like Coach Belichick, and Tom Brady is my friend.
I know, they’re talking a lot of heat. But you know what? They’re also getting a lot of popularity out of it. I think they’re gonna do very well. Tom’s a winner.
I think the other team is fantastic, though. No, I think it’s a fantastic team. Turned out to be a good quarterback. But you know, there’s less pressure on the Patriots, because they’ve been there. Once you’ve won, once you’ve done it, and they’ve done it, once you’ve done it, there’s a lot less pressure. So we’ll see what happens. But you know, you have to stick up for your friends, right?
I hate to make predictions.
I hate to do it. I don’t even know what are the odds. I guess it’s pretty even, two great teams, pretty even, so I’ll say the Patriots will win.
By eight points.
Shouldn’t be doing those things, but that’s OK.
I need no data on that.
Thank you, everybody.
Thank you very much. It's so nice. A lot or spirit. Great spirit for this country. Thank you all.
We have tremendous spirit, and I want to thank you.
We had a wonderful election, didn't we?
And I saw those numbers, and you liked me, and I liked you. That's the way it worked.
I'm honored to be here today among so many of our really and truly great heroes. I want to begin by thanking General Votel and General Thomas for their distinguished leadership and service on behalf of our country. Very, very outstanding people.
I'll also like to thank General Dunford, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff. That's big stuff when you have the chairman.
Where is - Joe, stand up for a second. This is one of the great people.
Thank you.
Also, Commander Vogel and everyone serving at MacDill Air Force Base. Quite a place. And we're going to be loading it up with beautiful new planes and beautiful new equipment. You have been lacking a little equipment. We are going to load it up. You are going to get a lot of equipment. Believe me.
So importantly, also let me thank all of the coalition partners and their representatives assembled here today.
We proudly, very proudly, stand with you. And we will be fighting for your security. They're fighting for our security and freedom.
Let me recognize our great governor and a very good friend of mine, and somebody who endorsed me. That makes him a better friend of mine.
If they don't endorse, believe me. If you're ever in this position, it's never quite the same, OK? You can talk, but it never means the same.
But this man is a great, great governor and has done a fantastic job. Rick Scott, governor, stand up, please.
Thank you, Rick.
Finally, on behalf of the entire nation, let me express our gratitude to all members. And I mean all members of our military serving in the United States Central Command and the United States Special Operations Command. We salute the Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force and Coast Guard, along with our civilian defense personnel who are so important to the success of what we're doing.
Let me also recognize the military families and spouses who bravely shoulder the burdens of war. I want every military family in this country to know that our administration is at your service. We stand with you 100 percent. We will protect those who protect us. And we will never, ever let you down.
As your president, I have no higher duty than to protect the American people, highest duty we have. I said it the other night. Great, great Supreme Court nominee. You all saw that.
to myself, perhaps the only thing more important to me definitely is the defense of our nation. Supreme Court's so important. But we have to defend our nation. And we will do that, believe me.
We will do that. And each and every one of you is central to that mission.
The men and women serving in CENTCOM and SOCOM have poured out their hearts and souls for this country. They've really experienced things that very few people get to experience.
You've shed your blood across the continents and the oceans. You've engaged the enemy on distant battlefields, toiled in the burning heat and bitter cold, and sacrificed everything so that we can remain safe and strong and free.
Our administration will always honor our sacred bond to those who serve. And we will never, ever forget you. Believe me, we will never, ever forget you.
We will ensure that the men and women of our military have the tools, equipment, resources, training and supplies you need to get the job done. You've seen me say we've been depleted.
Our Navy is at a point almost as low as World War I. That's a long time ago. That's a long time ago. It's not going to happen anymore, folks. It's not going to happen anymore. Not with me.
But we will ensure no taxpayer dollars are wasted. I have already saved more than $700 million when I got involved in the negotiation on the F-35. You know about that.
And I want to thank Lockheed Martin. And I want to thank Boeing. And I want to thank all of the companies that have really opened up.
And when I say opened up, Rick Scott understands this very well. Opened up and cut their prices, OK. Because that's what they did. And we've got that program. It's going to be back in really great shape from really being very troubled. And we are going to be taking care of our great veterans.
We will make a historic financial investment in the Armed Forces of the United States and show the entire world that America stands with those who stand in defense of freedom. We have your back every hour, every day now and always. That also means getting our allies to pay their fair share. Been a very unfair to us.
We strongly support NATO. We only ask that all of the NATO members make their full and proper financial contributions to the NATO Alliance, which many of them have not been doing. Many of them have not been even close. And they have to do that.
Central Command and Central Operations Command are at the very center of our fight against radical Islamic terrorism. America stands in awe of your courage. Those serving at CENTCOM have bravely fought across the theater of war in the Middle East, and bravely battled a viscous enemy that has no respect for human life. Today we express our gratitude to everyone serving overseas, including our military personnel in Afghanistan.
SOCOM has dispatched its legendary warriors to the most secret, sensitive and daring missions in defense of the United States of America. No enemy stands a chance against our Special Force, not even a chance.
They don't have a chance. And that's the way we're going to keep it. And you're going to be better off because you're going to have the finest equipment known to man. Going to be better off.
The proof that our nation has been blessed by God, look no further than the men and women of the United States military. They are the greatest fighters and the greatest force of justice on the face of the earth, and that the world has ever known.
The challenges facing our nation, nevertheless, are very large, very, very large. We're up against an enemy that celebrates death and totally worships destruction. You've seen that.
ISIS is on a campaign of genocide, committing atrocities across the world. Radical Islamic terrorists are determined to strike our homeland, as they did on 9/11, as they did from Boston to Orlando to San Bernardino and all across Europe.
You've seen what happened in Paris and Nice. All over Europe it's happening. It's gotten to a point where it's not even being reported. And in many cases, the very, very dishonest press doesn't want to report it. They have their reasons and you understand that.
So today we deliver a message in one very unified voice to these forces of death and destruction. America and its allies will defeat you. We will defeat them. We will defeat radical Islamic terrorism. And we will not allow it to take root in our country. Not going to allow it.
You've been seeing what's been going on over the last few days. We need strong programs so that people that love us and want to love our country and will end up loving our country are allowed in. Not people that want to destroy us and destroy our country. (CHEERS)
Freedom, security and justice will prevail. In his first State of the Union message, President George Washington wrote that "to be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving peace."
Almost 200 years later, as the general was also speaking about Ronald Reagan, he said that "wisdom comes in three very, very strong words. Peace through strength."
I've said it many times during the campaign, speak it in front of tens of thousands of people at one sitting. And I'd always mention America first, a phrase that you probably never heard, "make America great again."
Anybody ever heard that?
And "peace through strength."
The men and women of the United States military provide the strength to bring peace to our troubled, troubled times. We stand behind you. We support your mission.
We love our country. We are loyal to our people. We respect our flag. We celebrate our traditions. We honor our heroes. You are our heroes. And we are prepared to fight. And we pray for peace.
Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
Oh, the sheriffs are great people. Well, thank you very much. Law enforcement was a big subject in the campaign and a subject that was very well received. You have no idea how respected you are, sheriffs and, generally speaking, the leaders of law enforcement. Anybody involved in law enforcement, you have no idea how respected you are - you don't get the honest facts from the press - if you don't know how respected you are. So I just want to say that upfront. 
I’m honored to welcome the National Sheriffs' Association. Your leadership is here, and I know the great job you do. I’ve known you and followed you for a long period of time. Your efforts and your officers are outstanding. I know so many sheriffs from my area - some in particular - and they're great friends and great people.
I just want to let you know that our job is to help you in law enforcement, and we're going to help you do your job. We're going to expand access to abuse-deterring drugs, which a lot of you have been talking about. They're out, and they're very hard to get. Stop the opioid epidemic. We've got to do it. It’s a new thing. And, honestly, people aren’t talking about it enough. It’s a new thing, and it’s a new problem for you folks. It’s probably a vast majority of your crimes - or at least a very big portion of your crimes are caused by drugs.
We're going to stop the border. We're going to stop - we're not going to have the drugs pouring from the border like they have been. We will work with you on supporting your longstanding efforts to strengthen the bonds between the communities and the police, which is very important. And it’s sort a new phenomenon to a certain extent, and it’s happening more and more. And some great results out when you can strengthen the bonds.
We're committed to securing our borders to reduce crime, illegal drugs, human trafficking, especially in border counties. We have a lot of the border counties represented.
We're also committed to working with law enforcement to stop terrorist attacks. You've been reading about that, been seeing about that - they want to take a lot of our powers away. There are some people with a lot of the wrong intentions, and it's - we've got a lot of bad people out there.
And, Dana, I just want to thank you on behalf of the government, on behalf of our country for leading a strong, strong effort in the courts. We really appreciate it, believe me. Because as you know, we don't have an attorney general. We have somebody who's phenomenal - Jeff Sessions. He’s going to be there hopefully soon. But I believe it’s about a record for the length of time that they’ve delayed the Cabinet. These are Cabinet members that are phenomenal people. And we haven’t had representation, and now we have excellent representation, fortunately, in Dana. And Jeff will be with you very shortly, hopefully. But we're having a hard time getting approvals. And it’s only a delay tactic - it’s all politics.
One person came up to me, a senator, a Democratic senator who came up to me the other day and said, Jeff Sessions is a fantastic man. He’s fabulous. He’s a friend of mine. He’s a great, great man and a great talent. And we're lucky to have him. I said, oh, great, I guess that means you're voting for him? No, I won’t be voting that. He said, politics doesn't allow me to do that.
I thought it was a disgrace. If the press talks loud and hard enough, I’ll have to tell you who said that to me. You don't want to hear it. You don't want to hear who said that? I didn't think you’d care. I didn't think you’d care. I’ll probably tell you, actually. Anyway.
So we're going to be very tough on crime. So we're going to be very tough on the drugs pouring in, and that's a big part of the crime. We're going to be very strong at the border. We have no choice. And we're going to be building a wall. We're starting very soon. General Kelly will be working with a lot of you. And he’s fantastic. He was the one who got approved very quickly along with General Mattis. He’s very, very outstanding. And I very much appreciate that you're here today.
And, Sheriff, I really thank you for leading the effort. Your reputation is fantastic, and it’s a great honor to know you. Maybe we can go around - we’ll let the press stay for a little while, unless you’d rather leave. Would the press rather stay? Just so you understand. This is a new phenomenon. You're on live television all over the world right now, so don't get nervous when you speak, okay?
But I don't think these things have ever taken place before. But you are on live television, so if you don't want to say anything, you don't have to. But if you do, I think it’s a good thing to say. So maybe we’ll just go around the room.
It’s true.
You were a great support.
Thank you, Carolyn. There’s a new sheriff in town.
I hear this so much. I hear this so much, Dana. They always use, "there’s a new sheriff in town." So anyway.
They were very nice. I agree. They were very nice.
So you're seeing a big difference?
And that's only two weeks. Okay? It’s a very short period of time. I’m hearing it from a lot of people. People are calling in and they're - and people I know that are in the area, they're saying it’s like day and night. Because we're not playing games. We're not playing games. We're stopping the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth. So thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Thank you very much. It’s so nice. I appreciate that.
Boy, we almost won your state. You know we weren't supposed to do very well in your state, and we won - lost by one point. I say, if I went there one more visit we would have won. We would have won Minnesota. But it was very close.
Thank you, I know.
I will. It's already being done, believe me. It's a big, big difference. And we will do that, and you do have a big problem, and you have a big problem with the refugees pouring in, don't you?
Well, you know, the vetting is much, much tougher now. And we need this court case. It will be very helpful to keeping the wrong people out of our country. You understand that better than anybody. So I think we're going to have some good results.
It may take a little while. And you know, this is a very dangerous period of time because while everybody is talking and dealing, a lot of bad people are thinking about, hey, let's go in right now. But we're being very, very tough with the vetting - tougher than ever before.
That used to be a political position, you know, what General Kelly is doing here right now. Homeland Security, if you remember - it's like a political position. Not anymore. Now it's, in my opinion, one of truly most important positions. So he's doing a great job. Thank you very much.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, Sheriff. And I will tell you that the EPA - you're right. I call it - it's clogged the bloodstream of our country. People can't do anything. People are looking to get approvals for factories for 15 years, and then after the 15th year they get voted down after having spent a fortune. So that's going to end. We have one of our really great people - as you know, Scott is looking to be approved by the Senate. We're still waiting for that one, too. It's a disgrace what's going on. But as soon as he gets involved, we're going to unclog the system.
And, by the way, people are going to get rejected, but they're going to get rejected quickly. But for the most part, they're going to be accepted when they want to do. We're going to bring the jobs back. And your state was very, very good to me, as you know. I mean, they were very, very good to me and I appreciate that. And just tell the people we're going to get the system unclogged and we're going to get it up.
As you know, I approved two pipelines that were stuck in limbo forever. I don't even think it was controversial. You know, I approved them - I haven't even heard - I haven't had one call from anybody saying, oh, that was a terrible thing you did. I haven't had one call. You know, usually, if I do something it's like bedlam, right? I haven't had one call from anybody. And a lot of jobs - in the Keystone case, we have potentially 32,000 jobs almost immediately. And then, as you know, I did the Dakota pipeline and nobody called up to complain. Because it was unfair. Years of getting approvals, nobody showed up to fight it. This company spends a tremendous - hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars, and then all of a sudden, people show up to fight it. It's not fair to our companies. And I think everyone is going to be happy in the end, okay?
So I appreciate it very much, Sheriff. It's a great honor to have you here. Thank you. And say hello to your people.
Yes, sir.
You never met our great Vice President.
And in about 10 minutes, you're going to see the Oval Office, too, which is - that's the other thing, you know, people have had meetings here. I had the car companies, the biggest companies - Ford, General Motors, Fiat - and they were in this room often. And I said, oh, so you've seen the Oval Office? "No, we've never been invited to see the Oval Office." You know where the Oval Office is? Ten feet in that direction - 10 feet.
Look, these are the biggest people that were going there - these are the biggest people. So they were never invited to the Oval Office and they were only 10 feet away. You would think they would be invited. But you're going to see the Oval Office, okay?
Well, I appreciate it. And I will say that, in the recent election, law enforcement is with me. I mean, the numbers were staggering - staggering. It wasn't like, gee, it's 51-49. Believe me, it was through the roof. Law enforcement and military also.
I think, generally, people in uniform tend to like me. Explain that to me. Dana, explain that to me. So, Sheriff, thank you very much. And do you miss your former governor?
You have a good new governor.
Mike Pence has been fantastic.
Dana, I want to thank you for your service. Amazing the way you just stepped into the breach and have done such a good job. And let's see what happens with the court case.
Yes, well, thank you very much. And, you know, one of the things that you know better than anybody is that we had a very good victory in Boston. So I said to everybody, why don’t we use the Boston case? Why aren’t we using the Boston case? Because the Boston victory was great, but it's statutorily -
And a highly respected judge, too. So I appreciate it. Thank you, Dana, very much. Appreciate it.
Go North Carolina.
Well, thank you. And a funny story - so when General Kelly was just sworn in, now Secretary Kelly, and I said, you want to have dinner tonight and we’ll talk? "Sir, I’m heading to the border." I said, I like that better. We don’t need to eat. I said, I like that better. So he’s right on the ball, he’s going to be fantastic. Because everybody has said the same thing.
Thank you. That’s very nice.
Has this ever happened before with the sheriffs?
It never happened?
And yet the murder rate in our country is the highest it’s been in 47 years, right? Did you know that? Forty-seven years. I used to use that - I’d say that in a speech and everybody was surprised, because the press doesn’t tell it like it is. It wasn’t to their advantage to say that. But the murder rate is the highest it’s been in, I guess, from 45 to 47 years. And you would think that you would be invited here, and you would think that you people would be able to solve - had you - if you ran Chicago, you would solve that nightmare, I tell you. I’ll bet everybody in that room, especially Carolyn, right, would raise their hand. Because to allow - I mean, literally - hundreds of shootings a month, it’s worse than some of the places that we read about in the Middle East, where you have wars going on. It’s so sad. Chicago has become so sad a situation.
How much of your crime is caused, do you think, by drugs generally?
Eighty percent. So without drugs, you would have a whole different ballgame.
And when did it start, big league? Or has it been going on for many years?
And at a much higher level?
Much higher.
Right, right.
Okay, well, we’ll have it take infinity, okay?
Absolutely, you’re right. I actually can’t believe that we’re having to fight to protect the security - in a court system to protect the security of our nation. I can’t even believe it. And a lot of people agree with us, believe me. There’s a group of people out there - and I mean much more than half of our country - much, much more. You’re not allowed to use the term "silent majority" anymore. You’re not allowed, because they make that into a whole big deal.
But there’s a group of people out there - massive, massive numbers, far bigger than what you see protesting. And if those people ever protested, you would see a real protest. But they want to see our borders secure and our country secure, and they want to see people that can love our country come in, not people that are looking to destroy our country.
So anyway, thank you, Sheriff.
So you’re saying - okay, so you’re saying the asset-taking you used to do, and it had an impact, right? And you’re not allowed to do it now?
And that’s for legal reasons? Or just political reasons?
I’d like to look into that, okay? There’s no reason for that. Dana, do you think there’s any reason for that? Are you aware of this?
So what do you do? So in other words, they have a huge stash of drugs. So in the old days, you take it. Now we’re criticized if we take it. So who gets it? What happens to it? Tell them to keep it?
And now what happens?
Who would want that pressure, other than, like, bad people, right? But who would want that pressure? You would think they’d want this stuff taken away.
I think less so. I think Congress is going to get beat up really badly by the voters because they've let this happen. And I think badly. I think you'll be back in shape. So, asset forfeiture, we're going to go back on, okay?
I mean, how simple can anything be? You all agree with that, I assume, right?
Do you even understand the other side of it?
It's like some things -
Sort of like the Iran deal. Nobody even understands how a thing like that could have happened. It does nothing.
So do we need any legislation or any executive orders for that, would you say, Dana - to put that back in business?
Okay. Good. You're in charge. I love that answer, because it's better than signing executive orders and then these people take it and they make it look so terrible - "oh, it's so terrible." I love it. You're encouraged.
Good. Asset forfeiture. You're encouraged. Okay. Yes, sir.
Okay, go for it. Just go for it. Dana will tell me if I can't or if -
Okay, that's great.
I appreciate it too. Thank you, John.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. You're a great group of people.
We're going to go into the Oval Office. Does anybody have anything to - not even a question, a statement, as to how we can bring about law enforcement in a very good, civil, lovely way, but we have to stop crime - right? Would anybody like to make a statement?
Can you believe that?
Who is the state senator? Want to give his name? We'll destroy his career. Okay, thank you.
You know, Bill Belichick, is a great guy, a friend of mine. And he was telling me - somebody told me that he'll oftentimes, wanting to get a player, he'll go to the other players on the team - he'll say, what do you think of this guy? You know, they all the different people. And he'll listen to them. And he's done very well, right? He's done very well. And essentially what they're - we're talking to the people that know - I'm not telling you, you're telling me. That came up this morning. I mean, that was a big statement. And I didn’t realize it was all clogged. The system is all clogged. So we're going to unclog the system, and we're going to go right now into the Oval Office.
Would you like the press to come in with you, Mr. Vice President? Should we let them come in? Otherwise they're going turn around, waiting for the next meeting for six hours. They don’t have such an easy job, I'll tell you. They don’t have such an easy job.
Oh, we're going to take it through the system. It's very important. It's very important for the country, regardless of me or whoever succeeds at a later date. I mean, we have to have security in our country. We have to have the ability. When you take some place like Syria, when you take all of the different people pouring - and if you remember, ISIS said, we are going to infiltrate the United States and other countries through the migration. And then we're not allowed to be tough on the people coming in? Explain that one.
So we'll see what happens. We have big court case. We're well-represented. And we're going to see what happens.
It could. We will see. Hopefully it doesn’t have to. It's common sense. You know, some things are law, and I'm all in favor of that. And some things are common sense. This is common sense.
I have to know, because I'm reported on possibly more than anybody in the world - I don’t think you have anything to say about that. I happen to know how dishonest the media is. I happen to know stories about me that should be good - or bad - you know, I don’t mind a bad story if it's true. But I don’t like bad stories that - stories that should be a positive story when they make them totally negative. I understand the total dishonesty of the media better than anybody. And I let people know it. I mean, the media is a very, very dishonest arm, and we'll see what happens. Not everybody. And I have to say that. I always preface it by saying, not everybody. But there's tremendous dishonest - pure, outright dishonesty from the media.
Let’s go into the Oval Office.
So they said this is the first President they've ever seen with all the papers on their desk. (Inaudible) cutting the price of the F-35 fighters. We have a lot of papers.
Okay, go ahead, folks.
Thank you so much. Thank you. It’s beautiful.